Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Platform offers unprecedented access to international brands for shoppers in Sub Saharan Africa; Orders are fulfilled by DHL Express (https://www.DHL.com), guaranteeing reliable and on-time deliveries.  With Black Friday only days away, many ardent shoppers have been on the lookout for the best possible deals. Black Friday originated in the US and has fast become known as the start of the famous sales weekend following Thanksgiving Day, with brands offering unprecedented deals and discounts to shoppers. DHL’s Africa eShop (http://bit.ly/2qOJ0UN) app connects shoppers across Sub Saharan Africa with some of the very best deals on offer from leading online retailers in the US & UK. Hennie Heymans, CEO of DHL Express Sub Saharan Africa, explains that the app offers African consumers unprecedented access to over 200 US- and UK-based online retailers on an easy-to-use platform, with great convenience and speed. “The DHL Africa eShop enables African customers to shop directly from over 200 highly sought after US- and UK-based online retailers, with purchases delivered to their door, by DHL Express.” Since its initial introduction in April of this year, the DHL Africa eShop app has seen its user base grow rapidly, and within the first three months of operation, it had already been rolled out to 34 countries across Sub-Saharan Africa. “African consumers have direct access to the season’s hottest deals on stores such as Amazon, Macy’s and Next to name a few, with a huge variety of products on offer, from clothing to electronics, consumer products and a host of products in between. It’s our aim to connect African shoppers to some of the best Black Friday deals on the continent,” adds Heymans. “We’ve already seen a large surge in app downloads and orders in the build-up to Black Friday, and with a number of stores already offering pre-Black Friday deals. Given the high volume of online shopping traffic over this period, it is important to be assured that your online order is being shipped by a reliable service provider. Africa eShop gives you that peace of mind, as all deliveries are handled by DHL.” “We are extremely passionate about driving e-commerce growth and adoption on the continent and our DHL Africa eShop app is perfectly positioned to increase access to exciting global brands,” concludes Heymans. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Deutsche Post DHL. Media Contact: Megan Roper (Collinicos) Head of Marketing, Sub-Saharan Africa, DHL Express Tel +27 21 409 3613 Mobile +27 76 411 8570 megan.collinicos@dhl.com Follow us at: www.twitter.com/DHLAfrica DHL – The logistics company for the world: DHL (https://www.DHL.com) is the leading global brand in the logistics industry. Our DHL family of divisions offer an unrivalled portfolio of logistics services ranging from national and international parcel delivery, e-commerce shipping and fulfillment solutions, international express, road, air and ocean transport to industrial supply chain management. With about 380,000 employees in more than 220 countries and territories worldwide, DHL connects people and businesses securely and reliably, enabling global trade flows. With specialized solutions for growth markets and industries including technology, life sciences and healthcare, energy, automotive and retail, a proven commitment to corporate responsibility and an unrivalled presence in developing markets, DHL is decisively positioned as “The logistics company for the world”. DHL is part of Deutsche Post DHL Group. The Group generated revenues of more than 61 billion euros in 2018. Media filesDownload logo