Economic State of the Nation By: Lungisa Fuzile, Chief Executive
of Standard Bank South Africa National Treasury’s latest
projections of economic growth and government debt show that South Africa is on
an unsustainable path, and that urgent, meaningful interventions are needed to
lift the country out of the low-growth trap it currently finds itself in. In his medium-term budget policy
statement, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni acknowledged as much as he delivered a
sobering set of forecasts. Tepid economic growth and increased spending on
overindebted state-owned enterprises (SOEs), mainly Eskom, means the budget
deficit is expected to remain at over 6% for several years. This will push
South Africa’s debt-to-GDP ratio to above 80% by 2028 – that is, if reforms are
not implemented. Against this backdrop, Treasury
recently gave the country an opportunity that should not be squandered when it
published a discussion paper aimed at facilitating a national dialogue on a
broad range of economic reforms. If implemented with speed and care,
these interventions would lay the foundations for faster, more inclusive
growth. The open invitation to comment on the document is commendable, as is
the pursuit of growing the economy while transforming it at the same time. Measures that can be implemented in
the short term – such as rolling out e-visas to boost tourism, importing
much-needed skills and auctioning spectrum – should be taken immediately so as
to provide a solid platform for longer-term interventions. The time for action
– underpinned by a clearly defined roadmap – is now. In its formal response
to Treasury, Standard Bank stated that it is firmly in support of the
underlying theme of the paper – that South Africa needs faster economic growth.
The country cannot resolve its social and economic challenges unless GDP growth
rises to at least 5% over the medium to long term. As the paper and the
National Development Plan note, such high rates of growth require much higher
rates of investment – a prerequisite of which is the restoration of policy
certainty and confidence. Importantly, Treasury’s
paper paves the way for the resolution of a range of policy issues in key
sectors of the economy. The document brings all these outstanding debates into
one process and calls for focused and deliberate conversation – an important
proposal considering that policy paralysis has hampered South Africa’s efforts
to attract investment. To bolster policy
stability, we proposed that the requirement for social and economic impact
assessments which inform policies must be rigorously enforced, and that the
findings of these assessments should be publicised. Adherence to these rules
has been somewhat weak, and this can give rise to policies that have unintended
negative consequences. And to avoid constant
amendments to legislation, we suggested that the impact of new policies be
evaluated at predetermined intervals. We also highlighted the
fact that changes in ministers need not give rise to changes in policy.
Amendments should be based on empirical analyses, which could be driven by a
strengthened Performance Monitoring and Evaluation Department. At the same
time, clear policy targets should be set wherever possible so that responsible
government departments can be held to account. In general, we welcome
the proposed approach to policymaking, which aims to ensure that legislation
benefits the nation, rather than individuals or select groups. The policymaking
process must aim to identify unintended consequences, while also ensuring
timely execution. Third, the broad theme
of enhancing competition to raise South Africa’s global competitiveness is
worth applauding, and this should inform policy decisions. But gains will be
muted for as long as the country’s firms have to contend with electricity supply
and transport and logistics issues. Reliable and affordable
energy is crucial for South Africa to achieve its growth ambitions. The current
structure is untenable, as our recent growth statistics show. For this reason,
we support calls to separate Eskom’s generation, transmission and distribution
functions to enhance competition, and we welcome proposals aimed at allowing
more private-sector participation in the industry. All impediments to
competition in the energy sector should be removed, and progression towards a
more competitive, efficient and cost-effective market structure should be
promoted. Meanwhile, we agree with
Treasury’s emphasis on growing the small-business economy – a meaningful tool
in the country’s job-creation arsenal. Aiding small businesses through grants
and cheap finance, and by buying their goods and services, is the right move. However, we should be
cognisant that shifting the buying power of the state from big business to
smaller enterprises will probably not expand the economy, since aggregate
demand remains unchanged. Other measures to grow
demand should be prioritised, including a renewed focus on exports. The African
Free Trade Agreement is one step in the right direction. The private sector too
can play its part to support small businesses. For instance, Standard Bank has
successfully piloted a funding instrument that allows entrepreneurs to have
flexible repayment terms aligned to the seasonality of their cash flows. Finally, the emphasis on
collaboration between the public and private sectors is another welcome theme
of the paper. To rebuild lost trust, open dialogue is more important than ever. To achieve our common
goals, the state and the private sector must each play to their strengths. For
example, with government’s fiscal position now severely constrained,
financially healthier private sector players may be able to find ways to bridge
funding gaps. It is encouraging then to hear that government’s Infrastructure
Fund, which will draw on public- and private-sector funding and will be housed
under the Development Bank of Southern Africa, is making progress. We look forward to
engaging with the government and other stakeholders in robust debate, with the
goal of implementing the measures highlighted in the paper. Our discussions on
the way forward should be comprehensive but swift – implementation, backed by
accountability, is the order of the day.