By David S. Levin, writer from New York Things
are getting pretty edgy here in the United States these days. The 2020 presidential
election is a year away and the storm clouds are forming on the horizon. They
are dark and foreboding for sure. The country is still reeling from an
emotionally unhinged and acrimonious election in 2016 that the majority of the
people, half the Congress and roughly 30,000 U.S. journalists have never quite gotten
over. This
election though, will be one for the ages. There are 18 Democratic candidates,
all outraged at just about everything, and each fighting to be the one that
takes on the great orange cyclops, Donald Trump; a rabid and unfiltered army of
one, shooting Machiavellian twitter missiles at friend and foe alike. So,
the question is, who will emerge for the Democrats as the nominie and face Trump
in the general election next November? That is, assuming he even ends up being
the Republican candidate to begin with. He might not. And that’s because the Democrats
have a few missiles of their own to help ensure victory in the election and
eliminate Trump entirely. One way or the other. They’ve
launched a rancorous and partisan impeachment proceeding against the president intended
to crash head-on into the election and ensure that the Democrats win the White
House in 2020. And it’s going to blow the country to ideological smithereens. Anyone
who thinks that America is a polarised tinderbox now, “ain’t seen nothing yet.” Since he took office, Trump has been under constant
legal and political attacks from all sides. Most of his wounds though, are largely self-inflicted
thanks to his complete disregard for the rule of law and any sense of presidential
etiquette or protocol. Even Richard Nixon looked honorable by comparison. But Trump
has a large, impassioned base of supporters, not to mention 66 million Twitter
followers, that he is counting on to push him over the finish line in November. So,
is there a Democrat out there who can beat him? To be sure, they’ve assembled a questionable lineup of
candidates. First, there’s former Vice-President Joe Biden, a 77-year-old
“moderate” that I’m not sure would actually be able to stay awake for the full
four-year term. He’s got a solid resume as a statesman and is well respected in
corridors of Washington. But to the younger, more progressive Democrats who are
starting to define the party ideologically, he’s part of the problem and from a
political era gone by. Then you have Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren. Two socialists that want to disassemble America piece by piece. Warren, for one, wants
to dismantle the U.S. free enterprise system in favor of something called
“accountable capitalism” which is essentially a fundamental reordering of
American business and a redistribution of most of the profits to everyone other
than the shareholders. And,
finally, there are the other fifteen unimportant Democratic candidates who, if
you listen to them, seem to be on some kind of pilgrimage to save mankind from
itself. None of them will be in the conversation for long. The
U.S. is in unchartered waters now and everything is riding on the impeachment
proceedings. The strategy of “weaponizing” them was not lost on the Democrats. They
were smartly timed to either destroy Trump completely or wound him badly enough
with the public that he simply can’t win. By their calculus, this is how the Democrats
believe they can retake the White House in 2020. But
the prevailing wisdom says the Republican controlled Senate will hold party
lines and not impeach him. For all the pomp and circumstance, the votes just
aren’t there, and it is unlikely that enough Republicans would cross over and
vote to impeach the president. This would leave the Democrats reeling and
scrambling for answers. And on the heels of a stinging impeachment defeat, the party
would mostly assuredly move even further left. This would badly weaken the
moderate, Joe Biden, in the polls leaving Warren or Sanders as the presumptive nominee. The
Democrats remember all too well watching the hapless Republicans stand idly by as
Trump steamrolled their party in 2016. Now, many of them shudder as they
consider the specter of Elizabeth Warren or Bernie Sanders doing the same thing
to them. The threat of a socialist taking the helm of the party is simply unthinkable
to many Democrats. So,
if Warren or Sanders continue to surge in the polls, and it looks like either one
could become the Democratic nominee in July, then you can quite possibly expect
a dark horse to enter the race, a late entry by the name of Hillary Clinton. That’s
right, Hillary Clinton. Round Three. Crazy? Not so much. She’s just waiting for
the opening. For the right moment. Her public statements of late certainly make
it sound like she’s ready to rumble again. And with Biden having likely faded by
that point, it will give her the opportunity she’s been looking for. Hillary
to the rescue. There
is a school of thought that believes that Clinton gives the Democrats someone
who is electable and a real alternative to Warren and Sanders, who many in the
party are terrified of. She would position herself as the sensible, moderate
choice who can beat Trump and restore America to respectability. There’s
also another school of thought that says Clinton entering the race is
preposterous. Ridiculous. She’s old news. But, don’t be so sure. Because the
rules have changed, in large part, thanks to Trump himself. He turned
everything upside down in 2016 and now, anything can happen. Clinton
still has a huge following among baby boomers, women, LGBT, African Americans, Jews,
Latinos, and many independent voters. And here’s the best part. Just like
Hillary herself, they’re all still fuming about losing the 2016 election. If
she runs, they will turn out in force. Nothing
like four years of angst to bring out the voters. Head
to head, Clinton would likely beat Trump in the General Election. Currently,
54% of the public disapproves of his job performance and it is slipping even further
among Republicans as the impeachment proceedings take a daily toll on his
electability. With 29% of the country registered as Democrats, 26% as
Republicans and 43% as Independents, Trump will need to capture a big chunk of
the independent vote to win, which would be difficult. Maybe even impossible. Given
the bitter, wall-to-wall media coverage, and the soon to air live impeachment hearings
on television, public sentiment will continue to turn definitively against him.
And many of the Independents that he desperately needs to win the election, would
almost certainly back the safer, more moderate choice. Even
if it is Hillary Clinton. For
her, who knows, maybe the third time will be the charm. Or maybe, it’s just the
law of unintended consequences.