By Chris Bishop, Head of Programming, CNBC Africa It is two years this week since President Robert Gabriel Mugabe stepped down as leader of Zimbabwe. Surely the only question was why it took so long for him the retreat from the ashes of a political career, once so full of promise that left him as arguably one of the most loathed leaders in Africa. Read: Op-Ed: This is how Zimbabwe has changed since I became president: Emmerson Mnangagwa On November 21, the day of reckoning, tens of thousands were
out on the streets calling for Mugabe to go; in Parliament, many politicians
who had spent their careers on bended knee before the man himself, punched the
air in celebration. Business too had high hopes; the new man President Emmerson
Mnangagwa was more business minded and pragmatic people said – wasn’t he? Even
though he had been in cabinet, overseeing the steady fall of Zimbabwe, for the
best part of 40 years. Old wine in new bottles, said the cynics. It didn’t start well. I recall reading Zimbabwe’s first post
Mugabe investment prospectus that the new President Mnangagwa was going to
present to us at the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2018. It was a thrown
together document talking about how the government was going to compensate
farmers who lost their land – the loss that triggered the country’s rapid
decline – with scarce hard currency. It all seemed a little far -fetched at a
crucial time for the economy when investors were looking for certainty and bold
strokes to usher in revival. Two years on, most of the Zimbabwe business people I speak
to as the Head of Programming of CNBC Africa appear more pessimistic than they
have been since the dark days of the early 2000s when hyperinflation signalled
the end for the Zimbabwe dollar and any vestige of credibility for the economy.
Inflation is about 300 % and on its way to Weimar Republic proportions, for the
second time in two decades. Even the well-heeled business types I know in
Harare have to struggle  through power cuts, shortages and a dearth of
hard currency. The finance minister economist Mthuli Ncube, bless him, has
been one appointment that stood out, in the Mnangagwa years, like a beacon. He
is a technocrat, with international experience, unsullied by the thuggish
politics of the last desperate years of Mugabe. He was also not a party man and
clearly is more at home looking over the books than standing with fist clenched
at political rallies. Yet, how much power he is going to be allowed remains to be
seen. He is a man who needs to make painful cuts to help revive the economy,
yet, when he did so in the last budget, in the form of reducing MP allowances,
he was soon sent back to the drawing board. Ncube
has told CNBC Africa a number of times that he is prepared to reintroduce
the Zimbabwe dollar as if it were as easy as flicking a switch. But the
reintroduction of the small denomination notes in Harare this week, supposedly
to ease the cash crisis, smacks of tinkering. It is unlikely that the flimsy
notes will make much except for a few headlines. Many Zimbabweans have told me
they won’t trust the new notes and a black market has already sprung up. One
wonders whether it was an economic or a political decision. All in all, a week may be a long time in politics, but the
last two years have been another grinding time of torpor for the Zimbabwe
economy. Investors appear to be fighting shy, the infrastructure is crumbling
and more and more skilled Zimbabweans are leaving the country in despair. No more politics, give us business, most in Harare say to
me. That was what the end of the Mugabe era was supposed to mean.