Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. The last match of the elimination stage of the Rugby Africa Cup (RAC) 2020 between Nigeria and Madagascar kicks off on Sunday, 1 December at 15:00 local time (14:00 CAT) at the Mahamasima Stadium in Antananarivo Madagascar.  Nigeria’s Black Stallions realize there is nothing to lose and everything to play for when they take on the might of Madagascar in Antananarivo.  “We’re expecting a partisan home crowd in Antananarivo with around 30 000 noisy fans. We will have to bring our A-game and show a more intense defence than we did when they put 50 points over us in a 7s game in Johannesburg recently,” says Dele Coker, Team Director Nigeria.  Kelechukwu Mbagwu, President of the Nigeria Rugby Football Federation (NRFF) states prior to the match: “We have a lot to prove, it would be good to get some payback and pride back. It’s going to be a big game for us. We’re in building phase in Nigeria rugby, still developing our pool of home-based players in our three regional leagues. We need to play international matches and keep testing ourselves against bigger, stronger and better opposition so our guys can get used to playing at a higher level consistently.”  With Madagascar occupying 51st position on World Rugby’s Ranking, 19 points above Nigeria all the pressure will be on the home team.  Philippe Canitrot, Coach Madagascar, underlines the importance of winning the match: “A new adventure starts. All the teams are dreaming of the World Cup. The Malagasy team is prepared for this match with concentration and humbleness. We will endeavour the challenge Nigeria will impose on us and are ready for a great match.”  The match will be broadcasted live and for free on Rugby Africa’s Facebook page @RugbyAfrique (https://bit.ly/2pSs8fB)  For the official announcement of the RAC 2020 please follow the link below: https://bit.ly/37G1S92  Elimination stage: 1 December at 15:00 local time (14:00 CAT): Madagascar v Nigeria, Mahamasima Stadium in Antananarivo Madagascar Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Rugby Africa. Media Contact: Stefanie Burkert Rugby@apo-opa.org Social Media Content: Link: https://we.tl/t-Bj95ZslD8U   Within this file you will find the official artwork for the Rugby Africa Cup 2020 fixtures for 30 November and 1 December. Please feel free to use this artwork on your platforms and social channels. Hashtags: #becauseweloverugby #RAC2020  Live stream, news & results: Follow @Rugby Afrique on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook Website: http://www.RugbyAfrique.com/  About Rugby Africa: Created in 1986, Rugby Africa (RugbyAfrique.com), previously the African Confederation of Rugby (Confédération Africaine de Rugby – CAR), is one of the six regional associations composing World Rugby (WorldRugby.org), the international organisation responsible for the governing of Rugby Union and Rugby Sevens. Rugby Africa unites all African countries which play rugby union, rugby sevens, and women’s rugby. Rugby Africa organises the qualifying competition for the Rugby World Cup, and Africa Sevens, a qualifying competition for the Olympic Games. Rugby Africa has 39 members, including 22 members and associated members of World Rugby, 10 members and associated members of Rugby Africa and 16 new countries collaborating with Rugby Africa. Media filesDownload logo