Godfrey Mutizwa, CNBC Africa African leaders are increasingly encouraging
their private sectors to play a more central role in shaping their key African
Mining Vision (AMV) blueprint after largely freezing them out in its first
decade. African Union (AU) heads of state adopted
the AMV in 2009 as a driver for structural transformation, industrialisation
and a  driver of growth after years of
nationally centered policies that failed to help them realise the goal of
creating regional value chains and an economically integrated Africa. “The biggest shortcoming of the AMV was that the private sector was not embraced at the beginning,’’ Veston Malango, the Chief Executive of the Chamber of Mines of Namibia told a panel discussion reviewing 10 years of the AMV in Accra, Ghana. “The CEOs were not aware of AMV but now we are very much involved.’’ The AU has been driving the AMV through its
African Minerals Development Centre (AMDC) since 2013, seeking to help
countries adjust to changing technologies and linkages between mining and other
sectors of the economy, reform their fiscal and tax regimes and improve governance.
The AMDC developed a mining guide for countries for domesticating the AMV and
aligning it with other countries. But many have been struggling, Mutuso
Dhliwayo, Executive Director of the Zimbabwe Environmental Lawyers Association
told the panel. He presented a case study of Lesotho,
Malawi and Sierra Leone which showed Lesotho and Sierra Leone only marrying
their mining policies to the AMV from 2015 when the vision was agreed in 2009.
The AU says just 34 of its 54 member countries have “attempted some level
domestication of AMV.’’ The AU wants to revamp the AMV as part of a
strategy to drive the African Continental Free Trade (AFCTA) which was launched
last year seeking to create a consumer market valued at more than $3 trillion
for Africa’s of 1.3 billion people while also dealing with technological
changes in mining. Kojo Busia, Chief of the United Nations
Economic Community for Africa’s Natural Resources Management, said some of the
key lessons of the past decade was the need to integrate mining within the
broader economy and for the intensification of the drive to create regional
mining linkages especially in infrastructure. “The potential for regional value chains can only be realised through regional growth especially for industries like manufacturing,’’ he said. “Otherwise it becomes a race to the bottom.’’ The meeting, which ends on Friday, is also
discussing ways to curb illicit financial flows from the mining industry and
helping countries negotiate contracts with large multinational companies as
part of building sustainable resource management frameworks.