Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. WHO: African Development Bank Group  WHAT: 25th Conference of the Parties (COP25) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) WHERE: IFEMA, Madrid, Spain WHEN: 2-13 December 2019 The 25th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) organized and presided over by Chile will take place in Madrid, Spain, from 2 to 13 December 2019. The 197 Parties that make up the treaty – 196 nations plus the European Union – will seek to move towards the implementation of the agreements that have been reached under the Convention that lays down specific obligations for all Parties to fight climate change. Having signed and ratified the Paris Agreement, nearly all African countries have committed to enhanced climate action through reducing their greenhouse gas emissions and building resilience. For the continent, adaptation to the adverse impact of climate change is urgent. Now is the time to translate the commitments made by African countries under the Paris Agreement into action, by safeguarding development gains and building resilience against extreme weather events that are increasing in frequency and intensity. This annual conference is the single global platform for all nations to negotiate an internationally agreed way forward to combat climate change. It also represents a key event that brings together all the major stakeholders engaged on climate change issues from across governments, private sector and civil society, including the African Development Bank’s main partners in the climate change domain. Highly represented in previous COP summits, the African Development Bank, the continent’s premier development finance institution, will be present in Madrid to support regional member countries to engage in an informed and effective manner in the negotiations through support to the African group of negotiators and through advocacy to make Africa’s voice heard in the international arena. The Bank has, through its climate change action plan, made important commitments to integrate climate considerations across its operations and to scale up its climate investments in African countries. Last September, the Multilateral Development Banks announced their plan to increase the global climate action investments each year to $175 billion by 2025. In Madrid, the African Development Bank will join the other MDBs to showcase our joint commitment to combatting climate change. A delegation of experts from the African Development Bank, led by Anthony Nyong, Director of Climate Change and Green Growth, will engage with public and private actors to build and strengthen partnerships to promote climate-resilient and low-carbon development in Africa. The Bank’s experts will participate in different events and hold sessions at the Multilateral Development Banks’ Pavilion about climate finance, building resilience and mainstreaming gender in climate change operations, among other topics. The MDB Pavilion is the fruit of collaboration between Asian Development Bank (ADB) (www.ADB.org), European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), European Investment Bank (EIB) (www.EIB.org), Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) (www.IsDB.org) and World Bank. 10 December: Africa Day 10 December marks Africa Day at COP25. This is a celebration jointly organized by the African Development Bank, the African Union, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development. Africa Day at COP25 will focus on concerted global action on climate change to attain the Africa We Want and it will be held in Room 3 from 18.30-20.00. Follow us on these social networks: Twitter (https://bit.ly/35yklTe), Facebook (https://bit.ly/2sbL21A), Instagram (https://bit.ly/2OngItJ) Official hashtag: #AfricaCOP25 Agenda of African Development Bank’s events at the MDB Pavilion: Tuesday December 3, 2019 – 14:00-15:00 Nature-based Solutions for Climate Resilience Wednesday December 4, 2019 – 16:00-17:00 Report on the Work of the Adaptation Benefits Mechanism Executive Committee Thursday December 5, 2019 – 11:30-13:00 Engaging the Private Sector in Financing Adaptation Friday December 6, 2019 – 10:00-11:30 Climate Resilience Solutions in Africa Monday December 9, 2019 – 17:00-18:00 Gender and Climate Change in Africa. From Sensitivity to Responsiveness Tuesday December 10, 2019 – 09:00-10:00 Boosting the development of water and climate projects Tuesday December 10, 2019 – 11:00-12:00 Building Resilience to Climate and Extreme Weather Events for African SIDS Thursday December 12, 2019 – 14:00-15:00 New Climate narrative in Africa Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contact: Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: g.wanneburg@afdb.org About the African Development Bank Group: The African Development Bank Group (www.AfDB.org) is Africa’s premier development finance institution. It comprises three distinct entities: the African Development Bank (AfDB), the African Development Fund (ADF) and the Nigeria Trust Fund (NTF). On the ground in 41 African countries with an external office in Japan, the Bank contributes to the economic development and the social progress of its 54 regional member states. For more information: www.AfDB.org Media filesDownload logo