By Chris Bishop, head of Programming, CNBC Africa Africa will be the home for the first NBA basketball league outside of the United States, but the question is will investors see it as a slam dunk? The NBA announced its foray into the continent at the Africa Investment Forum in Johannesburg, Tuesday, with an international league among the champions of 12 African nations to start in March. The champions of six nations have qualified so far: Nigeria; Senegal; Egypt; Angola; Morocco and Tunisia. Twelve other African nations will play off for the last six places. The league appears to be funded completely by the NBA but in the long term will have to find money from heavyweight investors. It may be a hard sell in a continent where football is king of the sports dollar. Ä straw poll among
bankers and foreign investors at the launch at the Sandton Convention Centre
showed how hard a nut to crack investment may be. “No,” says one
African banker shaking his head. “Not now but maybe
if the sport grows in the future,” says another African investors. Basketball has had
a chequered past in Africa when it comes to money. In Angola, there is a
televised league. In Mozambique, along with a number of other Lusophone
countries , it has a big following, but even less money. In Africa’s most industrialised
economy, South Africa, fans follow the NBA but efforts to popularise the sport
have been slow. Albert Zeufack, the
economist for the World Bank Africa, is a basketball fan who follows the LA
Lakers. He believes tycoons pouring billions into African basketball may not be
as farfetched as it seems. “I think it is
promising as an investment. The talent Africans bring to the NBA its exploding,
it shows the potential. It is an opportunity for investors to grow training
centres here for new talent and bring hope for the continent,” he says. Akinwumi Adesina,
the head of the AfDB, said at the launch that he had followed basketball
matches while he studied in the lab at university in the United States. He
encouraged investors to plough billions into the new African league. “I am very happy
about this launch…Africa has the talent when it comes to basketball. All I ask
is that they change the name from NBA to NBIA to National Basketball Investment
Africa !”he joked.    {user:chris.bishop@abn360.com}}