Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. On the opening day of the 2nd China International Import Expo on November 5th, China time, the “Yiwu China Commodity City (http://www.CCCGroup.com)” brand was unveiled at Times Square in New York, attracting tourists from all over the world, competing with onlookers and becoming the focus of global trade. “Yiwu for commerce and trade, sharing the future” – Yiwu China Commodity City has transmitted Yiwu’s voice to the world, showing the unique charm of China's economic development.  Yiwu China Commodity City is called “the world's largest small commodity wholesale market” by the United Nations, the World Bank and Morgan Stanley. As of late, the Yiwu market has traded with more than 210 countries and regions around the world, and more than 500,000 foreign merchants come to Yiwu every year. Relying on export advantages, Yiwu actively develops import trade, and Yiwu China Import Commodity City Incubation Zone brings together about 150,000 source products from more than 100 countries and regions. To realize the strategic transformation of “Import and Export Two-Wheel Drive, Domestic and Overseas Interconnection” for Yiwu Market, Yiwu continues to empower and build an omni channel import commodity trade center. Meanwhile, Yiwu is also experiencing iterations from traditional trade to digital trade. Yiwu cooperated with Alibaba to sign the eWTP strategic cooperation agreement, build an eWTP Global Innovation Center in Yiwu, promote the innovation and practice of trade patterns between Yiwu and the overseas sites of the eWTP service system, and establish a globally applicable eWTP standardization rules system. Yiwu for commerce and trade, sharing the future. With the hope of a better life, the new legend will continue. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Yiwu China Commodity City. Media Contact: Yiwu China Commodity City Ziyu Yan Phone: +86 13922218503 Email: 706955815@qq.com Website: http://www.CCCGroup.com Country: China Media filesDownload logo