Creating the regionally integrated Africa of our dreams, will require political will, policy changes, and private and public sector partnerships. – Dr. Victor Oladokun, Director of Communication, African Development Bank In 2018, the fictional country of Wakanda
in the blockbuster movie Black Panther, was ranked fourth as the most
mentioned ‘country’ in Africa during TV broadcasts, according to a recent study
by the University of Southern California. Coverage of Wakanda far exceeded
mentions about African business, travel, health; sports, or development. While
the finding is amusing, it is a reminder of the significant narrative challenge
an integrated Africa faces in showcasing opportunities and the many
transformational changes taking place on the continent. Ultimately, effective
and transparent communication will be key to regional integration, and the
capacity to attract investor and partner interest. At the heart of every civilisation is a
human desire for game-changing solutions that transform nations and human
lives. Vibranium, Wakanda’s equally fictional precious metal, was the
key to making it the most technologically advanced nation on the planet. But in
reality, critical to a regionally integrated ecosystem will be how Africa
continues to innovatively use, manage and add value to its tremendous
resources. Tectonic global shifts are already
changing every aspect of our economies and enterprises. Also affected, are
policies, education, research, ICT, finance and banking, trade, migration and
the mobility of human capital, goods and services. The African Continental Free
Trade Area agreement, which came into force on May 30, 2019, holds the
tantalizing prospect for the creation of a single market for goods, services
and the movement of persons, with a total GDP of $2.5 trillion, and a combined
population of one billion people. Astounding and rapid technological
developments are already underway in artificial intelligence, robotics,
nanotech, quantum computing and Big Data. The African Development Bank and
partners such as The Rockefeller Foundation, Microsoft, and Facebook, have
launched a Coding for Employment Program to create over 9 million jobs and
reach 32 million youth and women across the region. With an eye on the future,
the African Development Bank is also working to bring advanced drone
technologies to African agriculture with a pilot project already underway in
Tunisia, and plans for potential regional rollouts. The fact is that it’s no longer ‘business
as usual.’ The ground underneath our feet is shifting at amazing speed. So, one
thing is certain. The near future will be radically different from anything we
might contemplate today. Which is why the African Development Bank and its
partners, will continue to work toward integrating the best ideas,
technologies, policies, systems and infrastructure. Creating the regionally integrated Africa
of our dreams, will require political will, policy changes, and private and
public sector partnerships. It will also require positive human agency and
energy that is characterized by vision, great hope, trust, and a genuine love
of humanity. Only then, can we expect to bring the greatest benefit to the
greatest number of Africans ever. In 2019, as the African Development Bank
commemorates its 55th anniversary, we are poised to play an even more strategic
role, in conjunction with the African Union Commission and other partners, to
help make Africa’s economic integration a concrete reality. Together, we will irreversibly impact and
transform the lives of millions of Africans.