Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group.
Download logo The Zimbabwe Rugby Union (ZRU) today announced the Sables training squad for the Victoria Cup.  Sables gets into camp on Monday the 3rd of July in preparation for the four nations tournament which features Kenya, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The Victoria Cup has been revived this year after the cancellation of the Gold Cup, before its cancellation in 2004, it featured Kenya and Zimbabwe. It is a very important revival of competitive rugby which will be very import in Zimbabwe’s road to the 2023 Rugby World Cup. Starting from November 2019, 16 teams will compete in the new Rugby Africa Cup (RAC) with an aim to qualify for the 2023 Rugby World Cup in 2022. The top 16 teams based on the African ranking will compete in a single coordinated competition until the last two face each other in the final. The first stage consists of a qualifying round where the winner of each of these four matches will progress to the group phase. The squad Royal Mwale, Tyran Fagan, Henri Boshoff, Keith Murray, Matthew Mandioma, Neil Mawere, David Makanda, Cleopas Kundiona, Kudakwashe Chipunza, Godwin Mangenje, Jan Ferreira, Kudakwashe Nyakufaringwa, George Saungweme, David Kapuya, Biselele Tshamala, Blithe Mavesere, Brian Nyuade, Aiden Burnett, Godfrey Muzanargwo, Ernest Mudzengerere, Hilton Mudariki, Kuziva Kazembe, Brandon Mandivenga, Jeremiah Jaravaza, Martin Mangongo, Chibuwe Ngoni, Daniel Capsopoulos, Takudzwa Chieza, Shayne Makombe, Riaan O’Neil, Kudzai Mashawi, Takudzwa Kumadiro, Matthew Macnab, Tafadzwa Chitokwindo, Shingirai Katsvere, Kudakwashe Chiwanza Rufaro Chikwaira and Wesley Chiromo Team Management Head Coach: Brendon Dawson Assistant Coach: Tonderai Chavhanga Defence Coach: Liam Middleton Conditioning Coach: Daniel Hondo Manager: Jason Maritz The Victoria cup match schedule: 22 June                    Kenya v Uganda TBA                          Kenya v Zimbabwe 13 July                      Uganda v Kenya 13 July                      Zimbabwe v Zambia 20 July                      Zimbabwe v Kenya 27 July                      Uganda v Zimbabwe 27 July                      Zambia v Kenya 10 August                 Uganda v Zambia 17 August                 Kenya v Zambia 24 August                 Zimbabwe v Uganda 31 August                 Zambia v Uganda 14 September           Zambia v Zimbabwe Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Zimbabwe Rugby Union (ZRU). Media Contact: Jeffrey Murimbechi Media and Communications Consultant Email: jeffrey@zimbabwerugby.com Phone: +263 772 146 054 Rugby@APO-opa.org