Dubbed the ‘new frontier of the African renaissance’ by the African union, Africa’s blue economy has vast potential. By Maram Ahmed, Fellow, School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), University of London While it is often difficult to make generalisations about Africa, Africa’s blue economy will remain a key facet of the continent’s future development. Dubbed the ‘new
frontier of the African renaissance’ by the African union, Africa’s blue
economy has vast potential. The blue economy
comprised of oceans, seas, lakes and rivers, reaps many benefits and is a great
source of wealth. It regulates the climate, enables trade, creates jobs and
provides mineral resources and food. Seventy percent
of African countries are coastal and more than 90 percent of the continent’s
trade is conducted by sea putting Africa’s blue economy high on the continents policymaker’s
agenda and fast becoming an area of geopolitical intrigue. As with any
emerging frontier, the rules of the game are being written and opportunities and
challenges abound. As we celebrate World Environment Day
and World Oceans Day this
month, how viable is Africa’s blue economy? The blue economy
covers a wide-range of sectors such as fisheries, maritime transport, tourism,
aquaculture, energy and extractive industries. These sectors need to work
together in order for the blue economy to be sustainable. A number of
challenges face the continent. Firstly, climate
change and ocean acidification is threatening
the marine ecosystems. This is a direct impact from human-related activity
such as fossil fuel
burning that has caused a change to the chemistry composition of the seas. In brief, burning fossil fuels
increases the carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere which is partly
absorbed by the seas. As excess carbon dioxide is dissolved in sea water, it
decreases the ocean’s acidity level causing ocean acidification. This, combined
with other climate change related stressors, adversely impacts fisheries,
aquaculture and coral reefs. For many African countries, marine ecosystems are
a lifeline for livelihoods and rich sources of food. Secondly, rapid
population growth in Africa, as well as illegal fishing, is dwindling
fish populations. At the moment, the gap between the amount of fish being
caught compared to those being replaced by natural reproduction, is quickly widening.
Fish account for “a
major source of animal protein” and are an integral part to food security
and nutrition for millions of Africans. Furthermore, the fisheries sector is a
major employer and source of income for rural communities impacting millions of
livelihoods. Thirdly, ocean pollution such
as plastic poses an imminent threat to marine life. More than 8 million tons of plastic are infesting in
the oceans every year. If the current trend continues, there will be more
plastic that fish in the ocean by 2050. Tons of plastics
polluting African seas are being ingested by marine animals, causing their
deaths, or are being caught up in them. An African
solution to an African opportunity? Recognising the
blue economy is only the beginning. As with any natural resource, unlocking its
potential poses various challenges. As governments
across the continent initiate efforts to harness the blue economy and formulate
strategies, a pan-African commitment and cooperation is required to drive
progress. Africa’s sixteen landlocked countries should be an integral part of
process given how interconnected the blue economy is. In order to
reach UN Sustainable Development Goals goal number
14 “conserve and sustainably use the ocean, seas and marine
resources for sustainable development”, an inclusive approach is needed. Governments
must pledge to put conservation and sustainability at the heart of the agenda.