Speculation has been rife since February that  Absa Group is considering South African Reserve Bank  deputy governor Daniel Mminele as its next CEO after Maria Ramos, left in March. Now that he has stepped down from SARB could this be the reason? SARB’s full statement The
South African Reserve Bank (SARB) wishes to announce that Deputy Governor
Daniel Mminele will be retiring from the service of the SARB when his second
five-year term as Deputy Governor expires on 30 June 2019. Mr Mminele has
advised President Cyril Ramaphosa and the Board of Directors of the SARB
(Board) that he has decided not to serve another term. Deputy
Governor Mminele leaves the SARB after almost 20 years of service, having
joined the SARB on 6 September 1999. Before being appointed Deputy Governor in
2009, Mr Mminele served as an Executive Assistant to former Senior Deputy
Governor James Cross. Later he also served as General Manager and Head:
International Banking Department, Head: Financial Markets Department and
Executive General Manager: Markets. His
most recent responsibilities as Deputy Governor include the Financial Markets
Department, International Economic Relations and Policy Department, Legal
Services Department and National Payment System Department, as well as
oversight of the Human Capital Cluster and Operations Cluster reporting to the
Chief Operating Officer (COO), Mogam Pillay. Mr Mminele is a member of the
Governors’ Executive Committee, Prudential Committee, Monetary Policy Committee
and Financial Stability Committee. He also chairs the Information Technology
Steering Committee, the Reserves Management Committee, the Board of Directors
of the Corporation for Public Deposits and the Financial Markets Liaison Group.
Mr Mminele currently serves as South Africa’s G20 and BRICS Central Bank
Deputy, and as Chairperson of the IMFC Deputies of the International Monetary
Fund. The
SARB takes this opportunity to thank Mr Mminele for his dedicated service,
commitment and significant contribution to the work of the SARB and wishes him
well for the future. In a message to staff, Governor Kganyago said: “Deputy
Governor Mminele has left an indelible mark on this fine institution and his
contribution to the Bank has been invaluable and immeasurable.” In
accordance with the policy of the SARB, Mr Mminele will serve a mandatory
six-month cooling-off period. The
Board has been in communication with the President and the Minister of Finance
regarding the process to announce Mr Mminele’s successor, in accordance with
the SARB Act 90 of 1989, as amended. In the interim, Governor Kganyago will
take over the responsibility for the International Economic Relations and
Policy, and Legal Services departments, while Deputy Governor Naidoo will
assume responsibility for the Financial Markets and National Payment System
departments. The COO will report to the Governor, and the Executive responsible
for the Currency Cluster will report to Deputy Governor Naidoo.