Celebrating a 9th year of recognizing Africa’s business champions, nominations for the 2019 All Africa Business Leaders Awards (AABLA™) in Partnership with CNBC Africa have opened. JOHANNESBURG,
22 May 2019: Africa’s leading business
awards, the All Africa Business Leaders Awards (AABLA™) in Partnership with
CNBC Africa, make a return for a 9th year, with their commitment to
recognizing remarkable business leadership on the continent. Organisations
and business leaders from across the continent, can now submit their nomination
via the AABLA™ website in one or more of the following categories: The
2019 AABLA™ will see an additional category join an already distinguished
line-up of recognitions, namely ‘CFO of the Year’. The categories
‘African of the Year’ and the celebrated ‘Lifetime Achievement Award’ will be
selected by the 2019 AABLA™ Judging Committee. As so many who have gone before can attest, an AABLA recognition is truly the pinnacle of any business leaders career, as the award embodies accomplishment, triumph of the odds and a first among peers, characteristic of the marque. “I’m
just delighted and I appreciate this award so much,” said an emotional Sol
Kerzner, recipient of the 2018 AABLA™ All Africa Lifetime Achievement Award at
the All Africa Grand Finale. “I am just so happy to be here today to receive
this award. It means just so much to me to receive this, right here in South
Africa, where it began for me,” he concluded. The
full list of 2018 AABLA™ All Africa Winners include: All
Africa Business Leader of the Year Peter
Mountford Super
Group, CEO All
Africa Business Woman of the Year Nomkhita
Nqweni ABSA
Wealth, Investment Management and Insurance, CEO All
Africa Entrepreneur of the Year Thembalihle
Baloyi Discovery
Insure, Founder and Executive Director All
Africa Industrialist of the Year Quinton
Uren Jendamark Automation, Managing Director All
Africa Company of the Year Ethiopian
Airlines All
Africa Young Business Leader of the Year Dr.
Elikem Tamaklo Nyaho
Medical Centre, Managing Director All
Africa Innovator of the Year James
Paterson & Benjamin Meltzer Aerobotics,
Co-Founders All
Africa Philanthropist of the Year Sir
Donald Gordon Donald
Gordon Foundation, Founder All
Africa Lifetime Achievement Award Solomon
Kerzner All
Africa African of the Year His
Excellency Paul Kagame President
of the Republic of Rwanda The
2019 AABLA™ Grand Finale on December 5 will embody true luxury and epicurean
pleasure for those wanting to indulge in an extravagant gala dinner, whilst
networking with some of Africa’s most notable business pioneers, celebrities
and public sector leaders. Nominations
will close on 15 July 2019 at midnight. For more information and to submit a
nomination, visit www.aablawards.com
and follow the 9th All Africa Business Leaders Awards (AABLA™) in
Partnership with CNBC Africa on Social Media: @aablawards and #AABLA2019. Tables
to the main event are available to acquire, with prices starting from R50’000
for seating of 10 guests. Booking details available at www.aablawards.com The
AABLA™ are proudly produced and managed by ABN Event Productions.