Digital identity systems could unlock as much as 6 percent GDP growth,  and up to 50 percent of that economic value can go straight into the hands of citizens. But those gains are possible only if digital identity is implemented equitably with trust, transparency, and accountability. By Magdi Amin, an Investment Partner with Omidyar Network Africa’s digital revolution is transforming our economy at a record pace. Africa is home to the 10 fastest growing cities in the world,[1] and for nearly a decade, we’ve had the world’s fastest rate of internet adoption – gaining 20 percent more users in the last year alone.[2] This expanded access has given rise to a powerful digital economy—one that’s expected to grow by more than US$300 billion by 2025.[3] But all this change begs the question: How do we ensure that Africa’s transformative technology fulfills its promise as a force for good? As Africa’s economy moves
online, so do the people who engage with it. And in this digital age, we need a
modern way of proving that we are who we say we are, establishing trust, and
transacting from afar. Increasingly, we will access a common digital market
with our “digital identities,” often via a
finger scan or a digital wallet. The African Union (AU) has recently
recognized digital identification systems as
essential infrastructure to unlock access to profound new social and economic opportunity, such as education, employment,
financial services, mobile communication, travel, and voting. Sixty percent of Africans believe
their governments will introduce new or revamped identity systems in the next
two years, in part to support the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA)
and to deliver public goods and services more effectively.[4] Studies show that Africa
stands more to gain from the adoption of digital identity than any other region
in the world; it also risks a lot if the systems are designed without
safeguards. How we treat our identity data will determine if digital identity
empowers or exploit Africans. Will we have choices? Will we
be required to submit so much information, including DNA, that it puts our
privacy and security at risk? Will we be consulted to ensure everyone is
included, especially the 500 million Africans who do not have a foundational form of ID today?[5]
Does the digital identity system design reflect the rights and protections
afforded by law? Will our data be shared with foreign companies or governments,
and if so, will the rights I enjoy in my country with respect to my data still
protect me? Human and digital rights groups
have raised these questions in response to recent ID-related decisions in Kenya,
Zimbabwe, and Nigeria. On April 1, Kenya’s High Court suspended some of the
contentious design decisions, such as making ID mandatory for public services,
pending a hearing. When ID is mandatory, we have seen less pressure on
governments and businesses to ensure the system is useful, safe, and trusted by individuals. Digital identity is a complex
task with many moral, economic, political, and technological choices. The AU, UN Economic Commission for Africa, Smart Africa, Internet
Society, Africa Digital Rights Hub, the World Bank and others are actively equipping
governments, businesses, and civil society with tools and training that can
lead to good outcomes for people. For example, they are helping
all 54 AU governments define and implement a shared set of principles for Good
Digital Identity in Africa. The principles convey an African view on inclusion, data
ownership, interoperability across borders, compatibility with existing
systems, privacy, security and safeguards, governance, neutrality, and
accountability. Building on both the AU Data Protection Guidelines and the
Principles on Identification for Sustainable Development, the framework also
addresses exclusion, discrimination, surveillance, consent, and other key
issues of our time. As technology shapes the very
notion of identity and introduces new risks and dilemmas, civil society,
businesses, and other stakeholders should engage in this conversation. It’s up
to all of us to help ensure governments and companies deliver solutions that
protect and empower citizens. It’s an opportunity Africans cannot
afford to miss. Digital identity systems could unlock as much as 6 percent GDP
growth,[6]
and up to 50 percent of that economic value can go straight into the hands of
citizens. But those gains are possible only if digital identity is implemented equitably
with trust, transparency, and accountability.[7] If we truly want to escape from hunger, disease, illiteracy, gender
inequality, and other global
challenges, everyone must have equitable access to engage in the
daily transactions that power societal and economic progress. And they must be
able to do so fearlessly—with privacy, security, and individual control. A good
digital identity will lay the foundation for the future we want. Africans must ask for all ID
to be Good ID. They must trust that ID and, therefore, use it voluntarily
because it empowers without putting them at risk. Without this, Africans will continue to suffer from
unequal access to employment and educational opportunities; health and
financial services; and many of the critical social
protections they need to succeed. Good ID provides a framework to improve the quality of our
digital identities with important safeguards embedded in technology, policy,
and practice while helping millions of Africans participate in and benefit from
today’s digital economy. With Gambia’s ratification,
the AfCFTA has drawn enough signatures to go into operation. This milestone
makes Africa the world’s largest free trade area. And with increased connectivity,
shared government platforms, entrepreneurship, and skills, our digital economy
is building to become a powerful force for good. Now, our challenge expands
beyond keeping pace with the digital revolution—we must enable Good ID to
thrive by placing the interests of Africans at the center of our social and
economic future. Transparent, accountable, and
trust-building practices lead to Good ID. System planners, technologists,
program managers, policy makers, and investors can either build or erode trust
with digital ID holders with every choice they make. An emphasis on privacy,
inclusion, user value, user control, and security will ultimately create the
foundation for impact and mitigate most risks of digital identity. Magdi Amin is an Investment Partner with Omidyar Network, focused on digital identity. Prior to joining the
Omidyar Network, he worked for the World Bank Group for over two decades –
living and working across Africa, East Asia and MENA. He led the development of
the World Bank’s Africa Digital Economy strategy and recently spearheaded
Omidyar Network’s first investment in digital identity in Africa, in
collaboration with the Economic Commission for Africa. [1] United Nations Department of Economic and
Social Affairs: 2018 Revision of the World Urbanization Prospects [2] We Are Social & Hootsuite: Digital in 2018 Report [3] McKinsey Global Institute: Lions go Digital: The Internet’s Transformative
Potential in Africa (2013) [4] ID4Africa: 2018 survey [5] World Bank: 2018 ID4D Global Data Set [6] McKinsey Global Institute: Digital Identification: A Key to Inclusive Growth [7] McKinsey Global Institute: Digital Identification: A Key to Inclusive Growth