Providing energy for all is an urgent task but unlike other crises, issues such as the global energy gap are often excluded from daily news agendas By Mansoor
Hamayun, CEO and Co-Founder of BBOXX At the current rate,
the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) will not be achieved
by 2030. The United Nations’ Economic Commission for Africa estimates that
upwards of $600bn is needed to meet the
global goals and this is just on the African continent – and here rapid population
growth is pushing these goals further out of reach. It is an urgent
task but unlike other crises, issues such as the global energy gap are often
excluded from daily news agendas. As a result, finding new ways to achieve universal
electrification by 2030 (SDG 7) remains an insurmountable task to many people. I am often
surprised by how little discussion there is about the how of meeting SDG 7. We have reached the tipping point and the
global community must act now if it is to meet SDG 7, which acts as the trigger
for wider economic development and growth. Here are my five steps to reaching
the goal: By now it is clear that
previous ways of thinking about and paying for electrifying entire communities,
countries and continents have run their course. The fact that over 1.2 billion
people still live without electricity and 1 billion live without reliable
energy access are strong indicators of this. Tackling the energy access gap
requires a sea change in our thinking and an entirely new approach. The question should no
longer be how do we extend traditional and expensive grid infrastructure but
how do we provide the appliances along with reliable connections to individuals
and businesses without electricity? It is here that technological advancements
take centre stage. In the past ten years, innovative solar home systems that
are centrally and remotely managed have become capable of delivering on-grid
experiences to rural and off-grid communities that were previously considered
unreachable. Access to affordable
and clean energy (SDG 7) is the entry point to solving a host of global goals. The
transition to clean energy is crucial if we are to tackle climate change (SDG
13), thanks to the offset of thousands of tonnes of carbon emissions.
Electricity enables local businesses to take off and acts as a trigger for
economic growth and poverty alleviation, SDG 1. It is equally the entry point
to other basic needs, such as clean water and cooking, SDG 6. Blending new partnership models is the key
to unlocking scale and rapid growth – from the visionary heads of state who are
prepared to back the race to electrification of nations, to the large utilities
who bring scale, to new entrants who bring fresh thinking – just as we have
done. So think big and partner with global leaders. This means including those who are on-the-ground,
like we are, being involved in how to best tackle the macro task. Training and
mobilising a local ‘SDG taskforce’ to implement and educate on electricity
usage is essential to achieving energy access for all. Subsidies can also have
a role to play in accelerating the process. This is model the Government of
Togo is using with our joint venture with EDF in the country. Again, a
practical example of blending different models to reach a desired outcome. In order to advance
the SDGs, the global community must wake up and start working together to move
the dial on electricity provision. Only then will energy act as the driving
force for wider economic development, unlock potential and transform lives in
Africa and beyond.