Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Two agreements have been signed today:  (1) an agreement between Eurorepar Car Service and UADH, on the deployment of the multibrand network in Africa, 	(2) an agreement between UADH and OLA Energy (www.OLAEnergy.com), to incorporate Eurorepar Car Service workshops into the OLA Energy service stations network. Agreement between PSA Group and UADH UADH and the PSA Group have today opened a new chapter in their partnership on the African market. Through Aurès Auto, the UADH holding company imports the Citroen brand into Tunisia. Via a joint venture with STAFIM (importer of the Peugeot brand) it is already participating in the deployment of Eurorepar Car Service in Tunisia. The new agreement signed today covers the deployment of the Eurorepar Car Service network, firstly to Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal, with a possible rollout to other countries in Sub-Saharan and Eastern Africa. Agreement between UADH and OLA Energy OLA Energy is a key operator in the distribution of petroleum products across Africa. The agreement signed today with UADH covers the establishment of Eurorepar Car Service workshops at OLA Energy service stations in Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal, with a further expansion envisaged throughout the operator’s pan-African network. For UADH, this is an opportunity to fast-track the deployment of the Eurorepar Car Service network via existing sites and to offer the PSA Group’s range of multibrand spare parts, including the Eurorepar range, which has over 60 000 items in 12 product families. A double win for Eurorepar Car Service in Africa Commenting on the agreement, Walid Loukil, Deputy CEO at UADH, stressed: “We are happy to be consolidating our links with our two longstanding partners, the PSA Group and OLA Energy, with whom we have worked with in Tunisia. The agreements signed today will enable our three entities, which until now had been operating individually in Africa, with considerable success, to give Eurorepar Car Service the benefit of our respective know-how and our various networks, enabling it to spread out rapidly across Africa.” Maurizio Libutti, Chief Operating Officer at OLA Energy, pointed out: “we aim to achieve a comprehensive and integrated customer experience, offering a higher level of quality and closer ties with our customers. By optimising the range of first-class services available at service stations, this partnership of excellence will enable OLA Energy and UADH customers to benefit from synergies between automotive maintenance and service stations.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of OLA Energy. Media Contact: OLA Energy – Casablanca Meryem Douihi meryelm.douihi@olaenergy.com +212(0)656522522  About UADH: Having acquired a solid expertise in the automotive industry over decades of successful operation, the Loukil group has consolidated its subsidiaries operating in the automotive sector via the holding company UADH (www.UADH.tn). The holding company, UADH, has the following subsidiaries: – Aures Auto: the sole distributor of Citroen and DS brands and their spare parts in Tunisia, with its subsidiary AURES GROS. – Economie Auto: the official dealer in Tunisia of the Japanese brand Mazda and the Chinese brand Foton, and their spare parts, with its subsidiary Mazda Détails. – LVI: the official and sole distributor in Tunisia of the Renault Trucks brand and its spare parts, through its subsidiary TRUCKS GROS. – GIF Filter: the Tunisian manufacturer of fuel, air and oil filters and cabin filters, and its subsidiary GIF Distribution. – Eurorepar Car Service Tunisie.  Grouped together under the same holding company, these companies now have a single highly qualified and experienced management team and are guided by a development strategy that matches their reputations. About OLA Energy: Located in 17 countries, with a network of over 1 200 service stations, 8 lubricant manufacturing plants, over 60 fuel storage facilities and a presence in over 50 airports across Africa, OLA Energy (www.OLAEnergy.com) is a key operator in petroleum products sales on the African continent. The Group employs over 1 500 staff, from various countries, and generates approximately 20 000 indirect jobs in the countries where it operates. Its sites and service stations are visited by an average of 400 000 customers per day. While remaining loyal to its African roots and ambitions, OLA Energy is a responsible business, whose subsidiaries comply with international standards on quality, safety and ethics. The aim it has set itself for the next five years is for OLA Energy to become the brand of choice in service stations in Africa. A brand created and led by Africans! About Eurorepar Car Service: Part of the PSA Group, Eurorepar Car Service aims to become the main all-brand maintenance and repair network of local outlets for vehicle owners across the world. It targets practical customers looking for an affordable automobile maintenance and repair service, with the quality assurance provided by a global business. Currently, it has 4 200 members worldwide, in 24 countries. Media filesDownload logo