By Jared Jeffery, Political Analyst at NKC African Economics On Monday, June 10, Rwanda announced that it would reopen its border with Uganda to cargo trucks for 12 days. The
border crossing at Katuna (Gatuna in Rwanda) has been closed since February 26,
with Rwandan authorities initially putting the decision down to construction. However,
over the intervening three months, bellicose rhetoric from both sides made it
clear that the border troubles were a symptom of a far more serious issue. Despite
months of increased tension and thinly veiled threats of military action,
Rwanda Revenue Authority Commissioner General Pascal Bizimana Ruganintwali and
the country’s ambassador to Uganda, Frank Mugambage, kept up the somewhat
insulting pretence of construction being behind the closure. Mr
Mugambage told Uganda’s Daily Monitor that the two-week opening to heavy trucks
was in order “to test the grounds of the constructed one-stop border point at
Gatuna.” Rwandan Minister of Foreign Affairs Richard Sezibera told senators on
Monday that once the road is tested, trade would resume normally, “… but we
don’t know when the Ugandan side will complete construction of the post …” However,
even as possible steps towards normalisation begin, Rwandan authorities
continue to decry the alleged mistreatment of their citizens in Uganda and have
said that Rwandans will still not be permitted to cross the border. “That
issue [Rwandans being allowed to travel to Uganda] will be solved when the
issue of illegal arrest, harassment and torture of Rwandans in Uganda will have
been solved by Ugandan authorities,” Minister of State for Foreign Affairs
Olivier Nduhungirehe told Reuters on Monday. For
their part, the Ugandan first family has shown that it is also wary of its
members crossing over to Rwanda. According
to ChimpReports, three of President Yoweri Museveni’s grandchildren were pulled
from basketball teams participating in the Africa Basketball League (FIBA) U16
tournament taking place in Kigali. President
Paul Kagame and Mr Museveni sat together at the inauguration of South African
President Cyril Ramaphosa on May 25 – sparking speculation over whether there
was a thaw in their relations. However,
that meeting came just as news broke that Rwandan soldiers had crossed the
border and shot dead a Rwandan smuggler and a Ugandan civilian who had tried to
intervene on his behalf. The
Ugandans made a show of returning the body of the Rwandan by inviting diplomats
to attend the handover. That incident, it seemed, threatened to turn a cold
standoff hot. And
yet, two weeks later, it seems normalisation rather than escalation may be on
the cards. As
it is unclear what prompted the Rwandans to reconsider their closure of the
border, it is too early to declare that matters will return to normal. As
long as the current leaders, with their long history of rocky relations, remain
at the helms of their respective autocratic states, relations between the two
countries will be vulnerable to such periods of instability.