Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. APO Group (www.APO-opa.com), the leading media relations consultancy and press release distribution service in Africa and the Middle East, will award one African journalist transport, accommodation and daily allowance to attend the 2019 Africa Hotel Investment Forum (AHIF) (www.AHIF.com), the premier hotel investment conference in Africa, which will take place in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia from 23rd-25th September.  The Africa Hotel investment Forum (AHIF) attracts many prominent international hotel owners, investors, financiers, management companies and their advisers. The latest edition of AHIF is predicted to be the biggest event of its kind ever staged in Africa, generating millions of dollars for the local economy, and billions for the continent as a whole (http://bit.ly/2ymN3bd). Among the 600+ attendees will be senior figures from the Marriott, Hilton, AccorHotels and Radisson hotel groups, while speakers include key influencers from the global hospitality investment industry (www.AHIF.com/speakers). APPLY to win the invitation: http://bit.ly/AHIFAPO The deadline for entry is midnight on 23 August 2019. Winner will be announced on 28 August 2019. Each year APO Group offers journalists the opportunity to attend major events as a part of its commitment to supporting journalism in Africa. For instance, the three previous recipients of the AfricaCom invitation were science journalist Aimable Twahirwa from Rwanda (www.bit.ly/2y42xAe), journalist John Churu from Botswana (www.bit.ly/2NVy4PP) and journalist Lilian Murugi Mutegi from Kenya (www.bit.ly/2y7EuAi). In September 2016, reporter Aggrey Mutambo from Kenya (www.bit.ly/2RdhgSe) has won APO’s invitation to attend the Africa Hotel Investment Forum (AHIF). In October 2018, Online News Editor Frank Eleanya from Nigeria (https://bit.ly/2YBnTBI) has won APO’s invitation to attend the Web Summit, the Largest Tech Conference in the World. In 2019, Mrs Oluseyi Awojulugbe from Nigeria has won APO Group’s invitation to attend the African Development Bank’s Annual Meetings (http://bit.ly/2QdLwfO) and Monica Nkodo from Cameroon has won APO Group’s invitation to attend the 2019 EurAfrican Forum (http://bit.ly/2WMyGYg). APO Group also sponsors the APO Energy Media Award (www.bit.ly/2NSbJ5D) and the APO Media Award (www.bit.ly/2DNPDfU) where a journalist wins $500 a month for one year, one laptop and one intercontinental flight ticket to a destination of his or her choice as well as one year of access to over 600 airport VIP lounges. More information about the Africa Hotel Investment Forum (AHIF) (www.AHIF.com) Distributed by APO Group on behalf of APO Group. Media Contact: Caroline Guilhaume Head of Media Relations Email: gcaroline@apo-opa.org Phone: +41 432 152 100   About APO Group: Founded in 2007, APO Group (www.APO-opa.com) is the leading media relations consultancy and press release distribution service in Africa and the Middle East. We assist private and public organizations in sharpening their reputation and increasing their brand equity in target countries. As trusted partner, our role is to leverage the power of media and build bespoke strategies that enable organizations to produce a real and measurable impact in Africa and the Middle East and outside the regional frontiers. The trust and recognition that have been granted to APO Group by global and multinational companies, governments and NGOs inspires us to continuously enhance our value proposition within Africa and the Middle East to better cater to our clients’ needs. Among our prestigious clients: Facebook, Dangote Group, GE, Uber, Microsoft, Nokia, Mara Group, PwC, DHL, Marriott Group, Sage, Ecobank, Iflix, Jumia, Samsung, Total, Merck, Société Générale, L'Oréal, Oracle, Philips, Barclays, MoneyGram, Ernst & Young, Orange … Headquarters: Lausanne, Switzerland | Offices in Senegal, Dubai and Hong Kong For further information, please visit our website: www.APO-opa.com Media filesDownload logo