By Jared Jeffery, Political Analyst, NKC African Economics For three consecutive weeks leading up to 19 August 2017, police or intelligence agents allegedly followed opposition chief whip, and perennial thorn in the president’s side, Tundu Lissu wherever he went. “They
should work to fight criminals and not waste their time and money on taxpayers
worrying about citizens fulfilling their right to hold government to
account,” he told attendees of the Democracy and Progress Party’s
(Chadema) summit. Less
than three weeks later, on 7 September 2017, attackers armed with AK-47s
sprayed his vehicle with bullets outside his house at a guarded government
housing compound in Dodoma. He was shot 16 times but survived. Two
years later, the perpetrators have not been apprehended and the government is
trying to revoke Mr Lissu’s position as a Member of Parliament (MP) due to his
absence for medical treatment. The
High Court on Monday, August 26, dismissed the state’s attempt to block an
application by Mr Lissu to challenge the decision to strip him of his seat in
Parliament. A
minor victory in a campaign to return and take on President John Magufuli in
next year’s election. The
application, filed by his brother Alute Mughwai in his absence, also seeks to
suspend the swearing-in of Miraji Mtaturu of the ruling Revolutionary Party
(CCM) as MP for the Singida East constituency, according to The Citizen. Mr
Lissu is also facing a sedition case which has been adjourned until September
23 due to his medical absence. It is not yet clear whether he will return by
that date. Other
Chadema leaders are fighting their own court battles. National Chairman Freeman
Mbowe, Secretary General Vincent Mashinji, and seven other senior members
(including five MPs) are facing charges of sedition, unlawful assembly, and
inciting the commission of offences, among others, related to events last
February during the Kinondoni by-election. A
university student was killed by a stray bullet when police tried to break up
the demonstration organised by Chadema. Elections
are still over a year away but plans to counter the repressive turn that the
political environment has taken under Mr Magufuli will need to be put in place
soon if the opposition is to have any chance. Mr
Lissu’s return and a legal victory to keep his seat in Parliament would be a
significant boost. It would also signal that the judiciary is able to withstand
executive pressure. Even
if Mr Lissu and the Chadema leadership overcome the legal challenges they face,
we can expect more trumped-up charges (likely on sedition and insulting the
president) to be laid to hamper their campaign. Before
being shot, Mr Lissu had been arrested six times in 2017 alone. The
excessively empowered registrar of political parties, who benefits from the
recently passed Political Parties Act, will also likely do their best to keep
the opposition on the backfoot. The
year ahead is going to show what is left to salvage of the country’s democratic
progress pre-Magufuli. Hopes are not high.