With the yuan’s latest depreciation, China is upping the ante in its trade war with the US. This has significant market and economic implications. By Keith Wade, Chief Economist and Strategist at Schroders and Craig Botham, Senior Emerging Markets Economist. The Chinese yuan (CNY) has fallen below 7.0 versus the US
dollar for the first time in a decade, a level which has been widely seen as a
line in the sand for the currency. Why is the yuan falling? The move follows President Trump’s decision to impose 10%
tariffs on $300 billion of Chinese imports last Friday. This is not a
coincidence. Rather than backing down in response to the US, China is upping
the ante. The exchange rate had been on the agenda at the trade talks,
with China refraining from allowing the currency to weaken whilst negotiations
seemed to be making progress. Along with the move in the CNY, China has asked its
state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to suspend purchases of agricultural imports
from the US. How are markets reacting? As in the last period of concern over the CNY in 2015,
markets have reacted adversely. Risk assets have sold off and safe havens such
as government bonds and the Japanese yen are rallying. Back in 2015, uncertainty over the direction of China’s
currency was significant as the authorities had not communicated their change
of strategy to the markets. Today there is a clearer framework in place, and
there are other differences. For example, in 2015 firms’ currency exposures
were unhedged and unprepared for any currency weakness. Many borrowed in external currency simply to take advantage
of the carry trade. The shock of 2015 and the greater two-way volatility since
then, reinforced by messaging from the People’s Bank of China, means that there
is less of a mismatch on corporate balance sheets. Messaging around the weakness is also clearer today than in
2015, when the reason for the devaluation was not obvious and so was
interpreted as a sign of underlying economic weakness. In short, we would not
expect a repeat today. China had wanted tariffs to be removed as part of any deal,
so by doing the opposite Trump was effectively delivering a rebuke. The problem
now is that both sides could get into a position where they cannot back down
without losing face. Consequently, the prospect of a deal has diminished and
the risks of escalation have risen. What does this mean for the global outlook? Increased trade tensions will put further downward pressure
on global activity, with investment plans likely to be delayed or cancelled and
trade suffering. China and the Asian supply chain will be most affected, but US
growth will also suffer. Alongside a stronger US dollar, such an environment may well
lead the US Federal Reserve to cut rates faster and further. Such a move may
please the president and yet, whilst he could reverse his decision on tariffs
with a tweet, it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that he has misjudged
China’s reaction.