By Francois Conradie, Head of Research, NKC African Economics Sudan
has a civilian prime minister for the first time since 1989, the year Omar
Al-Bashir deposed Sadiq Al-Mahdi. The
new (transitional) prime minister, Abdalla Hamdok, took the oath of office on
Wednesday, August 21 – on the same day as the new Sovereign Council. Mr
Hamdok had been working as a senior economist for the UN in Ethiopia until last
year and, after resigning from that position, had turned down an offer from Mr
Bashir to become finance minister. He holds a PhD in economics from Manchester
University and his career includes various positions in international
organisations like the International Labour Organisation and the African
Development Bank. Real
power will continue to lie with the military which will exercise it through the
Sovereign Council. The
council is made up of five soldiers and six civilians, with the important
detail that one of the civilians is a former military man. This means that the
military will dominate the council through its chairman, General Abdel Fattah
Burhan (who until this week was the leader of the Transitional Military
Council, the TMC) and General Mohamed Hamdan ‘Hemedti’ Dagalo (a powerful
officer who has played a role in suppressing dissent in Darfur for decades). Mr
Burhan will exercise power for 21 months and then a civilian is to take over
for 18 months. Elections are supposed to take place at the end of the latter
period. Mr
Hamdok has one job: to improve Sudan’s international relations enough to unlock
fresh loans from countries other than the Gulf states that have already
supplied some desperately needed capital. First
prize would be if he could get Sudan’s designation by the US lifted as a state
sponsor of terrorism, but it will take time before it becomes clear whether
that will be possible. The
importance of better relations with foreign governments means that authorities
will tend to promote good governance, so we remain cautiously optimistic about
the direction of travel in Sudan, but massacres over the past few months show
that the military men’s brutal instincts are still there.