Peter Moyo has asked the court to direct Old Mutual's board to pay their own legal costs to stop them abusing company monies by drawing him into endless litigation. By Fifi Peters, CNBC Africa reporter and anchor If you thought the legal feud between Old Mutual and its former CEO Peter Moyo was far from over, you are right. Legal court papers filed by Moyo on Tuesday in response to Old Mutual’s decision to fire him twice will likely delay a court verdict that was expected to clarify whether or not he can return to work as CEO. That
judgment, along with Moyo’s application to find Old
Mutual’s board in contempt of court, was supposed to be delivered this week
but it’s now unlikely to happen until next month. In papers
seen by CNBC Africa, Moyo has asked the High Court and presiding Judge Brian
Mashile to consider new developments that transpired after the August
16 faceoff between himself and Old Mutual at the South Gauteng High Court
in Johannesburg. These
developments relate to Old Mutual’s decision to jump the gun by publishing
an open letter to its shareholders to update them about the litigation
ahead of Judge Mashile’s pending verdict. In the open
letter released August 21, Old Mutual re-affirmed its position that trust and
confidence in Moyo had broken down and that a future working relationship with
him was “untenable”. Old Mutual
also announced its decision to further terminate Moyo’s employment contract on
legal advice that it was in its ambit to do so. In his
latest affidavit, Moyo argues these actions are further evidence of Old
Mutual’s contempt of court and disregard for the rule of law. “I seek to
introduce this letter in order for the court to take it in evaluating my
existing application against Old Mutual for the finding of contempt of court,
including in respect of the individual directors,” Moyo said. “The latest
contempt of court must be viewed as a continuation of the ongoing contemptuous
conduct of the respondents,” he added, which he will seek in a further application
to be declared delinquent directors. Moyo has
also asked the court to direct the board to pay their own legal costs to stop
them abusing company monies by drawing him into endless litigation “I submit
that a case exists for the court to consider directing the individual members
of the board to pay the costs of these proceedings personally. Their conduct
does not promote the interest of shareholders,” he said. Up until
now, it’s been unclear how Old Mutual could legally fire someone they had
already fired. But Moyo’s
court papers reveal what legal leg they could have been acting on. “…during
arguments, my counsel submitted that the effect of the judgement, on the
contracting findings, was to restore the contractual relationship between the
parties,” Moyo said. The
judgement above refers to the July 31st ruling in which Judge
Mashile found Old Mutual’s dismissal of Moyo unlawful and ordered he be
temporarily reinstated as CEO, which the company is appealing. Even though
Judge Mashile’s order restored the employment contract, Moyo argues that “it
did not have the effect of taking away the contractual rights of Old Mutual.”
This includes Moyo’s right to a disciplinary hearing to defend purported
allegations of misconduct. Old Mutual
has strongly denied Moyo’s allegation that the board has acted in further
contempt of court and maintains that the first and second dismissal are above
board, despite the court judgement. In an
emailed response to Moyo’s attorney Eric Mabuza dated August 22, Chris
Todd, Head of Legal at Bowmans, the counsel for Old Mutual writes: “Your
allegation that the further notice of termination constitutes an act of
contempt of court is strongly denied. It has at all times been clear, from the
terms of the judgement of Mr Justice Mashile and from the submissions of your
clients’ counsel, that our client is entitled to give notice (and indeed, to
give further notice) under his employment contract. “If your
client persists, despite this, in contending that the further notice is an act
of contempt of court, that contention is any event clearly irrelevant to (Old
Mutual’s) application for leave to appeal…in which argument has been completed
and judgement reserved,” said Todd in the emailed response. The two
parties are expected to present their cases at the High Court on September 3, a
day after Old Mutual releases its interim results.