By Dr Zweli Mkhize, MP and South Africa’s Minister of Health. We
are all shattered by the sad news of the tragic and sudden loss of our beloved
Dr Thandi Ndlovu. Dr
Ndlovu was an inspiring entrepreneur, a community developer, a freedom fighter,
a friend, a good doctor and a lovely human being. She inspired both
business women and men and was always elected to be their leader because of her
vision and her courage. She
was trusted by many of us who still expected her to contribute a lot to the
future of our country. She worked hard and achieved many incredible milestones
in her career; making us all proud of her as a professional and a
businesswoman. Personally,
I had the privilege to work closely with her as a comrade and business person
during my tenure as the Treasurer General of the African National Congress; as
she occupied leadership positions in various business organizations. It
was fun to watch her in action – she was spectacular! She
fought hard for Black business to be given space and be supported; taking up
their issues of unfair treatment and unpaid invoices as their spokesperson;
confronting inefficient and arrogant beaurocrats; with success. In
the construction sector, Dr Ndlovu was known as the undisputed champion for
inclusivity, high quality performance and a fearless opponent for collusion and
injustice perpetrated against black contractors. She
challenged chief executives and chairpersons of boards of the
large construction companies and on behalf of Black Business Council got
them to concede to a corrective process to address the past injustices; known
as Voluntary Rectification Program (VRP). This was a major achievements for the
BBC and government to enforce empowerment in the construction sector. Men
and women in the industry respected her as a leader. For
her, being a woman was a source of confidence, strength, authority and decisive
leadership – it all came naturally. She was a strategist whose business acumen
made her a wise leader who was equally formidable and diplomatic in the board
room. These qualities made her ideas prevail. Sisi
Thandi was a powerful force for transformation and economic emancipation! South Africa  has lost a leader and we
as a nation are all the poorer on such great a loss. She
was a talented golfer,  a generous person who loved people. She was always
cheerful with her loud infectious laughter. She
was  a good, humble and a caring soul and always a doctor at heart. We
shall forever miss her sisterly love and warmth. We
convey our deepest condolences to her beloved family, and to her friends. 
May  they be consoled to know that we
share in their grief. May
her soul Rest In eternal Peace!