Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. A delegation of ten Ghanaians led by the Ghana Government Statistician, Professor Kobina Annim, is currently in Denmark to exchange experiences with Statistics Denmark. The visit is part of the Strategic Sector Cooperation between Ghana Statistical Service and Statistics Denmark.  The aim of the visit is to for Ghana Statistics Service to explore best practices in statistics management and get a deeper insight into how Statistics Denmark collects administrative data. Ghana Statistics Service is working towards relying more on administrative data as done by Statistics Denmark in order to ease the process of collecting accurate statistics for decision-making and dissemination. ‘’The data from the administrative sources can complement the use of surveys in the production of statistics. It will also contribute to quality assuring the production of key economic statistics through a benchmarking mechanism,’’ Professor Kobina Annim says. Good experiences and mutual benefits This Strategic Sector Cooperation is the newest in the portfolio of the Embassy of Denmark. Nevertheless, Ambassador Tove Degnbol expects that the collaboration will bring many of the same mutual benefits as the Embassy has seen in previous cooperation. ‘’We expect that the exchange of knowledge between Statistics Denmark and Ghana Statistics Service will generate mutual inspiration and yield significant results, as we have seen it happen in our maritime  sector cooperation,’’ she says. The visit will end on August 22nd. Besides the Government Statistician Professor Kobina Annim, the other participants include officials from other key institutions such as Births and Death Registry, the National Identification Authority, the Ghana Police Service and the Ghana Immigration Service. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Embassy of Denmark in Ghana.Media filesDownload logo