Press Release Two innovative products – Digital Investment Platform, Tracker, announced Abidjan, Cote
d’Ivoire, 25 March 2019 – The African Development Bank, heads of 34 leading financial institutions covering Africa and other partners of the Africa Investment Forum reaffirmed
their commitment to “scale up, speed up, and synergize” efforts to deliver
transformative projects across the continent. The meeting was also
attended by lead partners of the Africa Investment Forum: African Export-Import Bank, Africa50, Trade Development Bank,
Development Bank of South Africa, Africa Finance Corporation, European
Investment Bank, and Islamic Development Bank. Chief Executive Officer,
Development Bank of Southern Africa, Patrick Dlamini, said: “The time has come
for us to demonstrate leadership to the rest of the world that a lot is
possible in Africa. The Africa Investment Forum provides the right platform to
achieve this. To see that the inaugural Forum last year was able to raise the
kind deals it did is mind-blowing. ” Ahead of the November
2019 event, the Bank announced two innovative products – an open digital
marketplace known as ‘The Platform,’ to connect funders to projects and investment opportunities across
Africa, and an Investment Tracker to
ensure that investment commitments made on the Africa Investment Forum platform
are closely monitored. The Platform is developed in
partnership with the Inter-American Development Bank’s ConnectAmericas – a global digital community with 200,000 registered business users, consolidating
its lead role in encouraging private sector investment in Africa. “We need to make the Africa
Investment Forum the accelerator of projects. Last year’s event was great and
we want to build on that momentum,” Africa 50 Chief Executive Officer Alain Ebobissé said, stressing the need to
collectively commit additional financial resources for project preparation, and
legal support for African governments to better negotiate public private
partnerships. Akinwumi Adesina, President of the African
Development Bank, said the maiden edition of the Forum held in November 2018
exceeded expectations. “The 2018 Africa Investment
Forum ended with 49 deals that secured investor interest worth US$ 38.7 billion—in
just three days.” Adesina thanked the
core partners for their strong support in making the inaugural forum a success,
and that “working together as one remains the core principle of our
partnership.” Partners unanimously
affirmed their commitment to the Forum and to driving investments in Africa. Mamadou Barro, Head Africa, Islamic
Corporation for the Development of the Private Sector – Member of the Islamic
Development Bank (IsDB) Group, said: “We
must find a way to collectively attract the kind of funds the continent needs
to close its infrastructure gap.” Participants welcomed the
innovative Platform, which offers investors, project sponsors and transaction
facilitators a live database of private/public private partnership (PPP)
projects and investment opportunities in Africa. It connects providers of
capital with opportunities for deals, improves the quality of project
information and reduces intermediation costs. 
Features also include deal flow analytics and investment support
services, and access to training in the ConnectAmericas Academy. Director
Project and Export Development Finance, African Export Import Bank, Kofi Adomakoh, called attention to the
importance of the co-guarantee component of the Forum, “We must pull our
strengths together to identify projects and synergies under the Africa
Investment Forum. The African Investment Forum that happened last year was long
overdue, but was important to put us back on track,” he noted. The 2018 Africa
Investment Forum attracted 1,943 participants representing 87 countries, and
brought together 400 investors from 52 countries; According to Jane Feehan, Head of
Regional Representation for West Africa, European Investment Bank: “We are delighted
to underline and repeat our commitment to the Africa Investment Forum. The
success of the first edition has given it a huge convening power. We are also
excited about the focus on transactions.”