Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Download logo As the world celebrates International Women’s Day, France provides UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, with USD 100,000 to protect and help survivors of gender based violence access lifesaving GBV services through a national toll-free hotline.  The hotline will function as a gateway to safe and confidential GBV services, including specialized counselling, psychosocial support and referral to multi-sectoral services delivered through a case management process. Consequently, UNFPA will closely coordinate with health and social Authorities.  Gender-based violence is widespread in Libya and has been exacerbated by the conflict, with approximately 40 per cent of surveyed women and men indicating GBV as either very common or common, as per UNFPA 2018 GBV Situational Analysis.  “Greater inclusion of women in public life is key to stabilization in Libya. To ensure such participation, we must address the challenges faced by women daily”, stated Béatrice Le Fraper Du Hellen, French Ambassador to Libya. “France is committed to work with Libyan institutions, health personnel and civil society in protecting women from violence. The UNFPA project is spot on”.  “Over 280,000 women are in need of lifesaving protection and basic services throughout Libya and are at risk of being victims of gender-based violence. We are thankful to France for their support to UNFPA for the establishment of the hotline to address the challenges around survivors’ help-seeking behaviors and alleviate their suffering,” said Ms. Bérangère Böell-Yousfi, Representative of UNFPA in Libya. “Women protection remains an under-funded priority agenda. We call on the Libyan government and other donors to further invest in women’s wellbeing throughout Libya.”  The hotline will be integrated into the existing and functioning GBV referral pathway in Tripoli, which includes four health facilities with presence of local staff trained by UNFPA on Clinical Management of Rape (CMR), while the establishment of similar referral pathways in other locations is planned and under discussion in the GBV Sub-Sector Working Group. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL).