World leaders have a formidable task: setting a course to save our future. By Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, former Finance Minister of Nigeria and Co-Chair of the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate World leaders have a formidable task: setting a
course to save our future. The extreme weather made more frequent and severe by
climate change is here. This spring, devastating cyclones
impacted 3 million people in Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe. Record
heatwaves are hitting Europe and other regions — this July
was the hottest month in modern record globally. Much of India
is again suffering severe drought. This month’s UN Climate Action Summit is a critical test for leaders to demonstrate a turning point on action. The science says to avoid even worse impacts, we must limit global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees C. To achieve this, countries and industries must peak greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and reduce them to net-zero by 2050. Meeting these goals is in all our interests. If we don’t,
climate change could force 100
million people into extreme poverty by
2030. By 2050, we could have 140
million climate migrants. Entire
nations are at real risk of disappearing under rising seas. There is also a clear, positive economic case. A
New Climate Economy report found that bold climate action could deliver at least US$26 trillion in economic benefits between now and 2030. It could also deliver 65
million new, low-carbon jobs per year in 2030 (equal to the
combined workforces of Egypt and the UK today) and lead to
700,000 fewer deaths per year from air pollution. This opportunity is just as compelling in individual countries. In Indonesia, a government report found recently that a low-carbon development path, more ambitious than the country’s current Paris commitment, could deliver GDP growth of at least 6% a year until 2045 — higher than business-as-usual. This path will reduce poverty more quickly, create more jobs and improve public health. In Mexico, smart actions to reduce emissions could save 25,000 lives and US$5 billion over the next 12 years. Some of the most ambitious action is
happening in island nations on the front lines. Last year Jamaica significantly increased its
renewable energy target, from 30% of its electricity mix by 2030 to 50%.
Countries like Barbados and Maldives have among the
earliest deadlines for carbon neutrality (2030 and 2020 respectively). These
countries know there is no time to
wait. Their ambition must become the norm. The International Monetary Fund estimates that the world
wastes 6.5% of global GDP directly or
indirectly subsidising fossil fuels. The health impacts of air pollution,
which kill an estimated 4.2 million people each year, make up the
bulk of costs. In Africa, air pollution kills
more people than childhood malnutrition
does, and poses risks
on a scale similar to unsafe
water or sanitation. Women and children especially are
harmed by indoor air pollution from dirty cooking fuels. Backing out of coal in particular is
imperative: emissions over the 30-50 year lifespans of new coal facilities are incompatible
with the world reaching net-zero emissions by
2050. However, lack of leadership from developed countries,
within their own jurisdictions and in their overseas
investments, is slowing action. G7 countries on average
produce 19% of their electricity from
coal. And despite repeated commitments to end fossil fuel subsidies, the
G7 still provides at least US$100 billion per year in subsidies to
coal, oil and gas. African countries only account for 2% of coal demand, yet are willing and compelled to take a
different path. But they need support
from partners and financiers. Developed and emerging
economies must help deliver the investments for a
low-carbon, climate-resilient future. Many regions in Africa are still working to give
people electricity. To ensure this
electricity is clean, it is time
for investors to focus
on renewables and stop subsidising coal.Conditions
are right: renewable
energy prices are dropping, and clean energy is
now often the most competitive option. When considering
local health costs,coal is more costly than renewables. African
countries are gaining momentum. Morocco recently built the
world’s largest concentrated solar facility, serving 2
million people. South Africa’s robust renewable energy auctions led
to solar and wind prices lower than prices from the
national utility or from new coal plants. Kenya is the
world’s 9th largest
producer of geothermal
power, which generates nearly half its electricity. And across
the continent, often the quickest, most affordable and reliable options are a mix of
off-grid and on-grid solutions, like household solar
panels and solar mini-grids. Companies like Mkopa in
East Africa and Lumos in West Africa are providing household and small business
solar solutions. Of course, there are risks and
opportunities beyond energy. On land use, the recent IPCC special report didn’t pull punches: land is critical both as an
emissions source and as a climate solution. This dichotomy
is obvious in Africa, where 48% of the continent’s GDP will
be vulnerable to climate extremes in
2023. Meanwhile, research from the Food and Land Use Coalition shows a sustainable approach could produce
US$320 billion annually in new business opportunities for sub-Saharan
Africa. The climate crisis does not begin
or stop with Africa, but African countries can play a
leadership role in seizing the opportunities of a better
future. The world’s larger economies have a responsibility to
unlock this future, for themselves and for others. Their voters
know this. Children, in the streets calling for action, know
this. In recognition of our environmental, economic, political
and moral predicament, leaders of developed countries must come to the UN Climate
Action Summit clearly signaling they will deliver enhanced
climate plans next year, and that they plan to
reach net-zero emissions by 2050. If the smaller, poorer
and vulnerable countries can do it, so can they.