By Lincoln
Wilcox and Efosa Ojomo The United
Nations defines access to safe drinking water as a basic human right, but
according to their newest report, three out of ten—or 2.1 billion people—still
lack access to it. Water may be life, but unfortunately it’s not free. Governments
and development organizations have spent billions of dollars over the past
several decades in an attempt to address this inequity in low- and
middle-income countries, but the unfortunate reality is that many of these
efforts have fallen flat. The United States, for example, has spent more than $360
million on rural water supply schemes in Africa and other regions that have
broken down and no longer work. When outside actors provide communities with
resources like wells and water treatment infrastructure, too often no
sustainable mechanism exists to maintain them. And even if they don’t break
down, donated solutions are inherently unscalable. So how do
you create a solution that sticks? In our research, we’ve found that it starts
with innovators and entrepreneurs who create robust markets that serve people
who are currently unable to access water. These new markets provide the
necessary resources to make safe water not only affordable and accessible, but
also financially sustainable since they generate revenue that can then be used
to maintain and grow the market. Consider how these two organizations, each
with different business models, have created viable, lasting solutions that
address the access to water challenge in the regions where they operate. Drinkwell:
Developing technology for safe water In the
densely populated nation of Bangladesh, the country’s clean water crisis reached
an all-time high when it was discovered that arsenic had contaminated the
nation’s groundwater. It was this crisis that inspired Minhaj Chowdhury to form
Drinkwell, a social enterprise that
sells low-cost, high-efficiency water filtration systems to local entrepreneurs
who build a business around providing safe water. Empowering
entrepreneurs who can leverage their social capital to reach customers is a key
component of the company’s model, which Chowdhury credits with its
sustainability. But the company also ensures the long-term viability of its
“Water ATMs” by providing entrepreneurs with maintenance support and financial
management assistance. Drinkwell
started selling its solution in 2013, but unlike to thousands of donated wells
that have provided water for limited periods before breaking down, the
organization’s financially sustainable model shows no signs of decay. To date,
more than 200,000 people now load “water credits” onto their DrinkWell cards
and use them at designated DrinkWell sites in India, Bangladesh, Laos, and
Cambodia, and the organization aims to expand its network to serve more than
5,000 communities in the next year. Drinkwell’s success offers a blueprint for
closing the gap on access to clean, affordable water. Manila
Water: A public-private partnership that works 25 years
ago, as many as ten million people in the Philippines didn’t have access to
safe water. In the eastern region of Manila, the capital city, barely a quarter
of people had access to potable water. The situation got so bad that the
government was compelled to enact a National Water Crisis Act, which paved the
way for innovators to work with the government to solve this problem. This gave
birth to Manila
Water, a public-private partnership between the government and the
Philippines’ oldest conglomerate, Ayala Corporation. As a
private company, Manila Water had a strong incentive to distribute water to as
many customers as possible. To do this, its executives invested in new systems
for production, treatment, and distribution of water; trained an entirely new
workforce; and reshuffled the existing organization structure to focus on
increasing access. At the same time, the government retained its ability to
regulate the industry to best serve the people of Manila. This hybrid
public-private relationship between Ayala and the government has paid off
immensely as more than 99% of people in the region now have access to
affordable, clean water. In addition, Ayala is exporting its expertise to
neighboring countries, including Vietnam, Thailand, Myanmar, and Indonesia.
Sometimes the government has the will, but the private sector might just have
the way. In a world
where water, the most basic resource we need to survive, is still out of reach
for more than two billion people, a fundamental rethinking of how we address
the challenge of providing this critical resource is necessary. No one
organization can solve the global water challenge, but organizations like
Drinkwell and Manila Water have shown a way to develop innovative
models—through leveraging entrepreneurship, new technologies, and government
partnerships —to tackle this seemingly intractable issue. And unlike more
conventional answers to the problem, these solutions are fundamentally
sustainable and scalable. That’s why they remain our best hope for making water
accessible to all. Lincoln
Wilcox is a
research associate on the global prosperity team at the Clayton Christensen
Institute. Efosa Ojomo is a senior research fellow at the
Clayton Christensen Institute where he leads its Global Prosperity research.