By Francois Conradie, Head of Research, NKC African Economics. Tunisia’s voters took to the polls on Sunday, September 15, in the first round of the second democratic direct presidential election in the country’s history. Since
Tunisians elected Beji Caid Essebsi in the first such election in November
2014, the political environment has undergone a number of changes: Mr Essebsi
has died; his party, Nidaa Tounes, has been badly damaged by infighting; and
the marriage of convenience between his secular current and the Islamist
current is on the rocks. The
race is a two-round affair: The first round is on Sunday and the second round
will take place later (no date has been fixed yet, but it will probably be
around October 13, which is the week after the legislative election on October
6). Results
from the first round will be known early in the week after the vote. There
are 26 candidates in the race. No publication of opinion polling data has been
permitted since the start of campaigning, on July 16, so the most recent poll
(or the most recent reliable one – fake poll results have been flying across
social media) is from mid-July. That poll, by Sigma Conseil, indicates
television tycoon Nabil Karoui as the favourite (with 23% of voting
intentions), followed by Kaies Saied, an elderly law professor (20%); Abir
Moussi, the Ben Ali apologist (12%); Prime Minister Youssef Chahed, who looked
like the favourite not so many months ago (7%); former state president Moncef
Marzouki (7%); and Defence Minister Abdelkrim Zbidi (3%). But
that was before Mr Essebsi died, before Mr Karoui was arrested on August 23 on
money laundering charges that date from 2016, and before the Islamists of
Ennahdha named a candidate, Abdelfattah Mourou. There
is little doubt in public opinion that the accusations against Mr Karoui are
politically motivated, and Tunisians see the hand of Prime Minister Chahed
behind it. Mr
Karoui may be freed at the eleventh hour: his case is to go to a second appeal before
the Cour de Cassation on Friday, September 13. Our expectation (based on
conversations with sources with some legal knowledge) is for the case against
him to be struck down, and for him to accordingly be in a position to contest
the election normally. A
twist in the story is that if he is elected president, Mr Karoui would become
immune from prosecution on these or other charges. Mr
Essebsi’s death has boosted Mr Zbidi’s chances. His experience at defence is a
strong selling point in a country that has felt a serious deterioration in
security since the 2011 uprising against Zine Al-Abidine Ben Ali, and he will
moreover be the natural candidate for secularist voters who are looking for a
candidate to block the Islamists. Mr
Mourou’s campaign has not gone especially well (when his party named him, we
thought he looked to be a strong contender) and we expect he will get little
support outside of the relatively small community of convinced Islamists. The
people who have historically supported Ennahdha will, this time, vote for the
populist candidates like Mr Karoui or Mr Saied, as the polls show. Our
expectation is for Mr Karoui and Mr Zbidi to go to the second round. Mr
Karoui’s party, Heart of Tunisia, is also looking like a strong favourite to
dominate the legislative race in October. The
election should go smoothly and should once again affirm Tunisia’s status as
poster child for Arab democracy. Political
interference in the judiciary (we are among those who see Mr Chahed’s hand in
Mr Karoui’s arrest) is less positive, but, without relativising the matter too
much, is more typical of Italy’s messy and semi-captured democracy than of the
pitiless autocracy of Tunisia in Mr Ben Ali’s time. (So is the popularity of Mr
Karoui, who seems to have studied former Italian leader Silvio Berlusconi for
political strategy.) If
Mr Karoui’s appeal succeeds, we expect him and Mr Zbidi to go through to the
second round, in which Mr Zbidi is set to be the favourite. The
legislative election will deliver a very divided Parliament, which will
probably mean some weeks of negotiations before a prime minister is named and
the government can get down to business.