By Mary-Jean Nleya Africa balkanised in 1884 – 1885 The balkanisation of African states is a colonial
construct, yet it has become one of the most Africanised phenomena of
contemporary Africa. During the wave of independence, a pan-Africanist movement
swept over much of the continent with Julius Nyerere as its ardent proponent.
However, the drawn lines of the Berlin Conference remained firm causing
national identity to trump over a shared African identity. The recent
xenophobic attacks in South Africa, particularly the targeting of other African
immigrants in South Africa, is a testament to identity markers that have been
forged along national geographies – a consequence of the Berlin Conference. Some
Nigerian citizens returned home last week as result of the violence. The recent
actions in South Africa and the reprisal attacks in other African countries
targeting South Africa makes African integration hang in the balance. Xenophobia & economic
integration The
xenophobic attacks come at a time when African countries recently concluded the
largest trade agreement, since the creation of the World Trade Organisation in
1994. The African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) has the potential to
connect over 1.3 billion people as well as to form an economic zone of over $3
trillion and boost intra-African trade in agriculture, manufacturing, raw
materials and services. However, such a potential requires more than simply
diplomatic relations across the continent, but also steadfast unity among
African people. Looting and destroying businesses owned by other African
migrants in South Africa, particularly businesses owned by those at the lower
rung of the socio-economic pyramid and the consequent retaliatory attacks in
various other African countries, goes against the very foundations of economic,
social and trade integration. The
AfCFTA was seen as acting as a buffer to the current trade-war climate by
strengthening regional trade within the continent of Africa; while free trade
is under attack in much of the developed world. If anything, the US-China trade
war is an additional propeller for African states to deepen trade-relations
among themselves. However,
what use is an African trade pact that aims at building bridges and dismantling
borders; when the African people do not see themselves as a single identity? Art and development: The unifying
force of music As
the African continent grapples with its developmental agenda, art and
specifically music has the propensity to act as a unifying force among African
people. The major milestone accomplished by the Ndlovu Youth Choir’s
magnificent performances that celebrated Africa as a continent and its culture,
and that ultimately landed them a record as the first African act to make it to
the finals of the US’ major talent competition, is significant not just as
entertainment but also in forging a unified African identity in the midst of
the regressive social and economic moment of the recent xenophobic attacks. Music
that was composed specifically following the September 2019 xenophobic attacks
was a song “Africa Unite” by controversial pastor T.B.
Joshua that poignantly explored social themes of interdependence and African
togetherness. Music
is an
enabler in building bridges and in articulating and
expressing the complexities of identity politics found in development processes.
It is also a vital medium in communicating
and illuminating themes central to development discourse (including regional
trade integration) at a time where the social infrastructure of the continent
is of importance and heightened social tensions among
Africans need to be eased. Conclusion The
AfCFTA, with its potential to make significant contributions to economic
development, curbing unemployment and poverty alleviation if it is supported by
effective policies, is a starting point; but an ingrained pan-African vision
from those at the bottom of the socio-economic pyramid all the way to the top
is essential for the growth of the African continent. The world has much to
benefit from an integrated and united Africa. Africa Unite.