By Gary van Staden, Head of Research, NKC African Economics The third date since July by which Lesotho Prime Minister Tom Thabane was supposed to reopen Parliament came and went this week with no indication that the embattled leader of the All Basotho Convention (ABC) is ready to face down a motion of no confidence, let alone implement the agreement brokered by South African President Cyril Ramaphosa some two months ago. Mr
Thabane prorogued Parliament sine die (without stipulating when it would
reassemble) in June to avoid a no-confidence vote brought by his own party. The
three dates on which the legislature was meant to reopen – August 5, August 16,
and September 25 – have passed into the clouded history of the country with no
indication of when or even if Parliament will be reopened. The
much-heralded July agreement signed by Mr Thabane, opposition parties, and NGOs
and labelled a major breakthrough has apparently joined several other
‘breakthrough’ agreements on the trash heap of Lesotho’s toxic politics. The
thrust of the July Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was to give legislative
authority to a so-called National Legislative Reform Authority (NLRA) that
would co-ordinate the national reforms process in the kingdom. The reform
authority will be constituted in terms of an act of Parliament, which will
guide the country in effecting constitutional governance, security, and media
reforms. Mr
Ramaphosa welcomed the signing as a “historic milestone that firmly set Lesotho
on the road to reform. The Basotho people can celebrate the convergence of
consensus that has led to this historic agreement and has built a strong
foundation for reforms to go ahead.” But
Mr Thabane had other ideas and at first suggested that Parliament be reopened
only to legislate the NLRA and then immediately prorogue again to avoid the
no-confidence vote; a suggestion even elements of his own party rejected. He
has since looked for ways to avoid or defeat the no-confidence vote – including
this week’s extraordinary attempt to secure the support of his arch enemy,
Lesotho Congress for Democracy (LCD) leader Mothetjoa Metsing. With
the support of Mr Metsing and all 11 LCD Members of Parliament (MP), the prime
minister might just survive by a narrow margin of two votes. That is of course
assuming that all the MPs back Mr Thabane, all his coalition partners vote
against the motion, and all of Mr Metsing’s MPs comply. That
seems a tall order, but Mr Thabane is that desperate. Some
of Mr Metsing’s demands for his support – that Mr Thabane forms a government of
national unity and that former army commander Tlali Kamoli be released from
prison – are unpalatable to many MPs, so the initiative seems doomed. Meanwhile,
a growing row between Lesotho Defence Force (LDF) commander Lieutenant General
Mojalefa Letsoela and Defence Minister Tefo Mapesela is straining
civilian-military relations to the increasing concern of civil society. The
army has been at the centre of Lesotho’s instability over the years, with its
critics accusing it of meddling in politics. The
LDF commander claimed that unnamed political elements were trying to infiltrate
and destabilise the forces, but local media reported it was common knowledge
that the defence minister was the target. Lt
Gen. Letsoela vowed never to allow “outsiders” to interfere with the army,
while Mr Mapesela has accused Lt Gen. Letsoela of “revolting against civilian
authority and taking major decisions without consultation.” Strained relations
between the military and civilian authority is probably the very last thing
Lesotho needs right now. It
is clear that Mr Thabane regards his treaty and other agreement obligations as
secondary by some measure to his own political survival. While the
‘breakthrough’ agreements that could assist Lesotho find some measure of
stability sit on ice, the prime minister continues to break agreements to
reopen Parliament and spends most of his time looking for unlikely alliances to
save his political skin. We
remain convinced that agreements that depend on Mr Thabane’s integrity and
compliance, including the July MoU, are doomed to fail. Unless Mr Ramaphosa, as
the Southern Africa Development Community facilitator in Lesotho, ends the
obsession with keeping Mr Thabane in power, nothing is going to change. Agreements
that suit Mr Thabane and South Africa will not help Lesotho.