Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. What: West Africa Fertilizer Financing Forum  When: 30 September – 01 October 2019 Who: African Development Bank, Africa Fertilizer Financing Mechanism, West Africa Fertilizer Association Location: Babacar N’Diaye Auditorium, African Development Bank Group Head Office, Abidjan Cote d’Ivoire  Time: 08.30 am (30 September) Full programme is also attached The African Development Bank (https://www.AfDB.org/), the Africa Fertilizer Financing Mechanism (AFFM) and the West Africa Fertilizer Association will hold the first West Africa Fertilizer Financing Forum from 30 Sept to 01 Oct 2019 at the Bank’s headquarters in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire.  As the right fertilization is essential to achieve food security and reduce hunger, the Forum aims to showcase enabling financing, especially to private sector players, and build strong links between them and lending schemes, to help increase access to affordable funding and improve farmers’ access to quality fertilizers.  The Forum, “Fostering Fertilizer Future” will discuss the financing needs of the fertilizer value chain and appropriate financing products. It will serve as a platform for the African Development Bank and the AFFM to present their products that support the industry, and to connect private sector dealers to the Bank and other regional financial institutions.  The event will bring together West African stakeholders in the fertilizer value chain, including  regional policy makers; producers, importers, blenders and distributors representing the 42-member West Africa Fertilizer Association. Commercial banks, development finance bodies and private funds, as well as agriculture digitalization companies and related non-governmental development organizations, are also expected to attend.  Media are invited to attend this event. Lunch will be provided. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). To confirm your attendance, please contact: Aoudi Diallo Alkassoum, Media Relations  a.a.diallo@afdb.org    +225 20 26 3721 About the African Development Bank Group: The African Development Bank Group (AfDB) (www.AfDB.org) is Africa’s premier development finance institution. It comprises three distinct entities: the African Development Bank (AfDB), the African Development Fund (ADF) and the Nigeria Trust Fund (NTF). On the ground in 41 African countries with an external office in Japan, the AfDB contributes to the economic development and the social progress of its 54 regional member states. For more information: www.AfDB.org Media filesDownload logo