Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Canon Central and North Africa (Canon-CNA.com) today launches the new imagePRESS C910 printer series, designed to meet the light production needs of both commercial printers and large corporate print departments, as well as SMEs wanting to cost-effectivelyproduce a range of high quality, personalised marketing collateral in-house.  Building on the success of its predecessor, the imagePRESS C850 series, this enhanced range incorporates the proven, high-performance professional print technology associated with the imagePRESS platform while delivering increased productivity and an even wider applications range.  The toner-based series comprises three models – the imagePRESS C910, C810 and C710 – offering market-leading production speeds of up to 90ppm, 80ppm and 70ppm respectively, on stocks up to 220gsm. Designed for typical monthly production volumes of up to 500,000 A4 pages, overall productivity is optimised with minimal service intervals, while the printers’ intuitive design and ease of use makes them suitable for all types of customer, including those with no experience of colour management or finishing.  Giving customers scope to work with a broader catalogue of media up to 350gsm, as well as a wide variety of textured substrates, the new series supports a diverse range of printed applications. The devices are also capable of producing banner prints of up to 1300mm, almost double the length previously achievable, and further expanding the portfolio of products that customers can offer, from book jackets to posters to four-fold leaflets.  A range of finishing options further increases application flexibility. These include a multi-purpose stacker for intensive banner printing environments, a continuous output kit for unattended perfect binding, and two booklet-finishing stations, including a compact version for customers with limited space. A new Document Finishing Device (DFD) interface and bridge adaptor allows for in-line connectivity between these third party finishing devices and the Canon staple and booklet finisher W1, enabling users of the imagePRESS C910 series to take advantage of the full range of finishing capabilities.  With a default screening pattern of 190 lpi, the new devices produce offset-like 2400 dpi print quality, with vibrant colour and precise text, page after page. Even on textured media and embossed papers, excellent print quality can be achieved thanks to the soft elastic layer on the image transfer belt which ensures that toner is distributed consistently across structured surfaces.  Extending customers’ choice of workflow, the new series offers a selection of three controllers for optimal integration into existing operations: version 7.1 of Canon’s PRISMAsync, and embedded G250 and H350 external versions of EFI Fiery.  With customers looking to shorten time to market for their printed marketing materials, respond more dynamically to competitor activity, and drive improved customer response with personalisation, the imagePRESS C910 series is suitable for smaller business environments due to its compact footprint and intuitive operation. For SME customers, it offers a cost-effective solution to bring high quality digital print on-demand in-house.  Somesh Adukia B2B Sales and Marketing Director, Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA), comments, “Over more than a decade, our high-performance imagePRESS solutions have played a starring role in the business growth stories of thousands of customers across Europe. With these latest innovations in our professional print portfolio, we’re pushing productivity even further with increased speed and maximum uptime, while enabling customers to produce more applications and extract maximum value from their investment. From marketing collateral to customised book covers, personalised postcards and even short-run promotional packaging, imagePRESS technologies open up a world of opportunity for customers of all sizes. We’re helping them to bring creative ideas to life, using the power of well-targeted print to fuel emotion and generate response.”  The imagePRESS C910 series will be commercially available across Europe from May 2019 directly from Canon and through selected partners. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media enquiries, please contact Canon Middle East Mai Youssef mai.youssef@canon-me.com  Canon Central & North Africa (CCNA) Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2016 is a strategic step that aims to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the Africa continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA will ensure the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, it will manage sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. For more information, log on to: Canon-CNA.com  Media filesDownload logo