Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Download logo Where and When:  2 May at 11.00 Bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister, Minister of Home Affairs, External Communications and National Development Unit, Minister of Finance and Economic Development.  	Signature of the programme ''Support Mauritius' development and youth employability through post-secondary education, training and innovation initiatives''. Prime Minister's Office, Port Louis. 2 May at 15.30: Bilateral meeting with the Secretary General of the Indian Ocean Commission.  	Signature ceremony of the programme on port security and safety of navigation in the region. IOC Secretariat, Ebéne. Background: The European Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development Mr Neven Mimica, will be on an official visit to Mauritius to discuss about the future relations between the European Union (EU) and 79 countries in Africa, Caribbean and Pacific. Mr Mimica is the EU Chief Negotiator for the negotiations of the post Cotonou framework (the Cotonou Agreement currently governing EU-ACP relations is due to expire in 2020).   He will have meetings with the Prime Minister and the Secretary General of the Indian Ocean Commission to discuss about the bilateral and regional cooperation. He will sign two new programmes: i) a bilateral programme of €7.9 million (300 million Rupees) in support of youth employment and innovation, and ii) a regional programme of €28 million (1 billion Rupees) to improve port security and safe navigation.    During his visit, the Commissioner will also meet the Minister of Public Infrastructure and Land Transport, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade, Mr Nandcoomar Bodha with several ministers to discuss how to strengthen the partnership between the EU and Mauritius. What you need to Know: The EU has a broad partnership with Mauritius in a large number of key areas such as maritime security, trade and investment, fisheries and the ocean economy, Climate Change, human rights as well as gender equality and women empowerment. Under all its programmes, EU support to Mauritius totals 50 million euros. The EU also has a longstanding partnership with the Indian Ocean Commission, and funds more than 80% of the organisation's portfolio of programmes.   Why this is Important: Official visit of the European Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development. Signature of a new bilateral programme in support of youth employment and innovation in Mauritius and Rodrigues.  Opportunity to participate in the signature ceremony of the new regional programme on port security and safe navigation. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Delegation of the European Union to the Republic of Mauritius and the Republic of Seychelles.