Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. A new business and technology solutions firm has been launched, which promises to partner with enterprises and governments to accelerate the development and transformation of Africa. The new entity named ‘Verraki Partners’ (www.Verraki.com) is focused on implementing technology and business solutions designed inherently for Africa and specifically fit for purpose, while also curating business ventures to unlock new sources of growth across the continent. Led by foremost corporate professionals as well as former Accenture leadership in Nigeria, Verraki will apply its global expertise and local insights to partner with enterprises and governments to accelerate the development and transformation of Africa by providing business solutions uniquely tailored for Africa.  With this launch, Verraki is asserting its capability not only to provide tailored business solutions across Technology, Advisory and Ventures, cutting across the Social Sector, Services and Real Sector, but also its focus on working with its clients to provide solutions to Africa’s seemingly intractable challenges. Unveiling its new corporate identity during an interactive session held in Lagos, Nigeria; the Managing Partner, Niyi Yusuf who until now was the Country Managing Director for Accenture in Nigeria explained that Verraki would be working with enterprises and governments to ignite opportunities, unleash their potential, pivot and turnaround their performance to create a better future. “Professional services firms in Africa are currently at an inflexion point. Digital technologies, revolutionary ideas and new business models are creating disruptions and new factors such as agility, flexibility, risk tolerance, cost-leadership, value for money and entrepreneurship are key requirements for success. Verraki’s birth at an auspicious time like this is driven by our understanding of clients’ needs and our desire to harvest the opportunities the disruption brings and participate fully, via a rebalance and reconfiguration to address the specific needs of the market,” he said. “We are now able to expand our services to cover more sectors of the economy, to service different types of clients (small and big, local and multinational) and invest in the market while taking measured risks and developing relevant home-grown solutions that will be needs-based and affordable, offering significant value for money. As the African Union launches the Africa Continental Free Trade Area in 2019 to create a single continental market for goods and services, with free movement of business persons and investments, we are excited about the prospects on the continent and look forward to contributing to Africa’s transformation via fit-for-purpose solutions and working with leading enterprises and governments to drive their capacity and motivation for change”, he continued. Following the reorganization of Accenture operations in Nigeria, Verraki is now a registered business intermediary for Accenture in Nigeria. Services to Accenture clients in Nigeria will now be delivered through Verraki Partners and Accenture will continue to support and provide services to Verraki, including delivery support and access to specialized skills on projects as applicable. Verraki will also develop technical support agreement for specialized support provisioning with other global companies in USA, Europe, China, India among others as required. Other partners at the firm include Toluwaleke Adenmosun, Partner, Services (former Managing Director Financial Services, Accenture Nigeria); Niyi Tayo, Partner, Technology (former Managing Director Technology Services, Accenture Nigeria); Abayomi Olarinmoye, Partner, Real Sector (former Managing Director, Resources, Accenture Nigeria) and Kelvin Balogun, Partner, Ventures and Accenture alumni who was former President, West, East and Central Africa at The Coca-Cola Company. The pioneering leaders of Accenture in Nigeria, Adedotun Sulaiman and Omobola Johnson are supporting Verraki as advisors and will work with its leadership to drive its transformation agenda with Africa’s enterprises and governments. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Verraki Partners. Follow us on Social Media: Facebook: VerrakiPartners Twitter: @VerrakiP LinkedIn: Verraki About Verraki Partners: Verraki (www.Verraki.com) is a proudly African company partnering with enterprises and governments to accelerate the development and transformation of Africa by providing business solutions designed for Africa. We build and implement technology solutions for seemingly intractable challenges, provide advisory services to drive the capacity and motivation for change, and curate innovative ventures to unlock new sources of growth across our continent. Additional information can be found at www.Verraki.com Media filesDownload logo