Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Download logo The UK-funded Energy Security and Resource Efficiency in Somaliland (ESRES) programme is giving more people across Somaliland access to affordable, clean and renewable energy.  Through a phased approach, ESRES in partnership with the Somaliland’s Ministry of Energy and Minerals (MoEM) is addressing the high costs of electricity in Somaliland. The diversification of Somaliland’s energy mix, and the strengthening of energy security will help address the high costs of electricity which is a significant barrier to growth. During ESRES Phase 1 (September 2015 – August 2018), the programme supported the Ministry of Energy and Minerals (MoEM) to develop a policy and regulatory framework and implemented a pilot to establish six hybrid mini-grids that are now fully operational across Somaliland. The second phase of ESRES (ESRES II) (September 2018 to 2021) will expand its investment in renewable energy through the Somaliland Renewable Energy Fund (SREF). This investment will help increase affordability and accessibility through lower tariffs and more connections. ESRES II will partner with local energy service providers to develop hybrid mini grids through a cost sharing arrangement. Phil Evans, Head, DFID Somalia, said: “The biggest beneficiary of this new phase of ESRES will be the people of Somaliland who will now pay significantly less for their electricity – building on the successes of the first phase of the programme, we believe this new phase will help promote sustainable economic growth and reduce poverty in Somaliland.” Speaking during the launch second phase of the ESRES programme, event held in Hargeisa, the Director of Energy, Eng. Liban Mohamed at the Ministry of Energy and Minerals said: “We believe this event is crucial for the Somaliland Renewable Energy Fund under the ESRES Programme. This event will encourage all of us to share our ideas, coordinate our efforts and synchronise our thinking towards the success of this programme.” “I wish to extend my deepest appreciation to the Government of the United Kingdom and the British tax payers for their support to the Ministry to deliver sustainable, reliable and affordable electricity service to the people of Somaliland. Both Somaliland and the UK have friendly relationships, and this generous and friendly support will inspire and be cherished by the Somalilanders.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of British Embassy Mogadishu.