HUGO BOSS and Porsche have partnered to bring an action-packed racing experience to the streets of the world’s major cities through Formula E. By Melitta Ngalonkulu, Journalist at Forbes Africa. Formula E is known
for its fascinating races globally. The partnership will have a strong focus on
the future of motorsport. In doing so the races will host a unique series for
the development of electric vehicle technology, refining the design,
functionality and sustainability of electric cars while creating an exciting
global entertainment brand. HUGO
BOSS which boasts a long tradition of motorsports sponsorship – has been
successfully engaged in the electric-powered racing series since the end of
2017. In this collaboration, HUGO BOSS brings its 35 years of experience and expertise in the motorsport arena to Formula E, as well as the dynamic style the fashion brand is renowned for. Mark
Langer HUGO BOSS, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) says that though they have been
working successfully with motorsports over the years, he is exceptionally
pleased that as a fashion brand they are taking the cooperation to new heights. “As
a fashion brand, we are always looking at innovative approaches to design and
sustainability. When we first encountered Formula E, we immediately saw its
potential and we are pleased to be the first apparel partner to support this
exciting new motorsport series,” he says. The
fashion group is also the official outfitter to the entire Porsche motorsports
team worldwide. The
fascination with perfect design and innovation, along with the Porshe and Hugo
Boss shared passion for racing, inspired Hugo Boss to produce the Porsche x Boss
capsule collection. Its standout features include premium leather and wool materials presented in the Porsche and HUGO BOSS colors of silver, black and red. Since
March, a range of menswear styles from the debut capsule collection is
available online and at selected BOSS stores. In South Africa the
first pieces of the capsule will come as a part of the FW 19 collection. Alejandro
Agag, Founder and CEO of Formula E says he is confident that the racers will put
their best foot forward on the racecourse. “This new partnership will see the team on the ground at each race dressed with a winning mindset and ready to deliver a spectacular event in cities across the world. As the first Official Apparel Partner of the series, we look forward to seeing the dynamic style and innovation on show that BOSS is renowned for,” says Agag. Oliver
Blume CEO of Porsche AG says Formula E is an exceptionally attractive racing
series for motorsport vehicles to develop. “It offers us the perfect environment to strategically evolve our vehicles in terms of efficiency and sustainability. We’re looking forward to being on board in the 2019/2020 season. In this context, the renowned fashion group HUGO BOSS represents the perfect partner to outfit our team.”