By Chris Bishop. The next time you put your credit card into the machine, be
afraid, be very afraid. Ogenene man’s terrorist can be another man’s cash cow,
according to two of the world’s leading experts on cyber-terrorism. Retired  four star
general, in the US Marines, John Allen, a former commander of NATO’s
International Security Assistance Forces, and Karin Von Hippel, a former senior
adviser to the US Department of State, who worked on security for the United
Nations and European Union in Somalia and Kosovo, spoke at the World Economic
Forum in Davos, Switzerland Wednesday. They painted a bleak picture of threats
and radicalism lurking on the dark web. “I wouldn’t put my credit card into a machine today. This is
happening right now,” says Allen when I asked him about how far away were we
from cyber-terrorism cleaning out bank accounts. “A cyber terrorist can open a bank account on a Monday;
start cleaning people’s accounts out on a Tuesday and start supplying money to
their cause on a Wednesday. I saw a case of a bank in Bangladesh that was
cleaned out of $80 million dollars in one day. We have to develop strong
systems to defend our financial systems.” Cyber- terrorists were becoming ever more clever and
ubiquitous, said Von Hippel. The Islamic Isis movement, in Syria, attracted
40,000 volunteers from 120 countries and many of them used the internet to
further their cause. “They are all out there in the cloud and the dark web doing
their work. They move so fast that it is very hard to keep up with,” says Von
Hippel. Allen said it was up to the world to combat this by spending
more money of tackling the root causes of this so called cyber-terrorism. “If we spent half as much money on easing the causes of this
terrorism, as we do fighting it, we would not drive so many youths into the
arms of the radicals,” says Allen. But despite these doomsday predictions, Von Hippel pointed
out that people should not panic. “Despite all of this, you’ve still got a bigger chance of
dying in the bathtub than you do in a terrorist attack,” she quipped at the end
of the eye-opening session.