By Francois Conradie, Head of Research at NKC African Economics On
Monday, January 14, the Constitutional Council published the final list of
candidates for the presidential election to be held on February 24. Only
five contenders are on it, all men: President Macky Sall, running on the
platform of his coalition Benno Bokk Yaakar (BBY); Issa Sall of the Party of
Unity and Coming Together (PUIR); Ousmane Sonko of the Patriots of Senegal for
Work, Ethics and Brotherhood (Pastef); Madické Niang of the Senegalese
Democratic Party (PDS); and Idrissa Seck of Rewmi. Notably
absent are Khalifa Sall of the Socialist Party (PS), a former mayor of Dakar
who is serving a jail sentence for illicit enrichment, and Karim Wade, son of
former President Abdoulaye Wade and the official candidate of the PDS. Khalifa
Sall (no relation to the president) is ineligible because of his conviction,
and Mr Wade of the same reason, over a conviction for illicit enrichment in
2015. President Sall subsequently pardoned him and he is currently living in
Qatar; he is liable to pay a huge fine should he return to Senegal. Issa
Sall and Mr Sonko are somewhat marginal figures, although the latter’s campaign
is interesting for its use of social media and suspicions that he is close to
Islamist currents in Senegal. Mr
Niang, a former minister, will pull votes from some PDS supporters, but many
others will follow the party leadership’s injunction to boycott. Thus
the strongest challenger to the president is Mr Seck. The
two men have much in common: they were born two years apart (Mr Seck is the
elder), both joined former President Wade’s PDS, and both served as his prime
minister. Mr
Seck split from the PDS in 2006, two years after being sacked as prime
minister. Both ran against the elder Mr Wade when he insisted in the face of
strong popular opposition to run for a third term in 2012. In the first round
of that election Macky Sall got 26.6% of the vote and Mr Seck 7.9%, so Mr Seck
then backed his rival in the second round, when he won. The
exclusion of Khalifa Sall and Mr Wade had been expected since a change to the
electoral law, which was clearly made in order to keep them specifically out of
the race. The
former Dakar mayor at one point looked like a serious challenger to the
president, and we think his trial and conviction had a political angle to them. With
the list of candidates being what it is, and the BBY coalition having a strong
presence across the country, we see very little chance of President Sall losing
the race.