By Chris Bishop Look left, look right, look upwards before you go out in
2019 because the biggest threat could come from the skies. We’re not talking
about bombers, nor meteorites from outer space, merely the destructive wrath of
mother nature. This is the is one of the greatest long term threats to the
world in 2019, according to the World Economic Forum’s Global Risks Report  that paints a bleak picture of the year ahead
full of trade wars, cyber-attacks and unemployment. Four of the five top risks by impact are posed by the elements:
failure to mitigate the effects of climate change; floods and storms; water
crisis, plus earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanos and electric storms. “2018 was sadly a year of historic wildfires, continued
heavy flooding and increasing greenhouse gas emissions. It is no surprise that
in 2019, environmental risks once again dominate the list of major concerns.
So, too, does the growing likelihood of environmental policy failure or a lack
of timely policy implementation,” says Alison Martin, Group Chief Risk Officer,
Zurich Insurance Group. “By 2040, the investment gap in global infrastructure is
forecast to reach $18 trillion against a projected requirement of $97 trillion.
Against this backdrop, we strongly recommend that businesses develop a climate
resilience adaptation strategy and act on it now.” Gaps play a big part in the Global Risks Report. In the top
five trends are: the growing gap between rich and poor; the polarisation of
societies; along with climate change, the rise of nationalism and the risk of
increasing cyber dependency. On the economic front, one of the biggest risks of all
likely to come in international trade; 90% of the experts, of the 1,000 polled
by the report, believed there is likely to be confrontation over trade between
the major powers in 2019. “Trade disputes worsened rapidly in 2018 and the report
warns that growth in 2019 will be held back by continuing geo-economic
tensions, with 88% of respondents expecting further erosion of multilateral
trading rules and agreements,” says the report. The danger of large scale cyber-attacks that could break
down infrastructure and information systems along with major fraud attacks, was
also flagged by the report. “Persistent
underfunding of critical infrastructure worldwide is hampering economic
progress, leaving businesses and communities more vulnerable both to
cyberattacks and natural catastrophes, and failing to make the most of
technological innovation. Allocating resources to infrastructure investment, in
part through new incentives for public-private partnerships, is vital for
building and strengthening the physical foundations and digital networks that
will enable societies to grow and thrive, ” says John Drzik, President of
Global Risk and Digital, Marsh. The report also delves into the biggest risks for Africa and other regions around the world: