Billionaire fortunes increased by 12
percent last year – or $2.5 billion a day – while the 3.8 billion people who
make up the poorest half of humanity saw their wealth decline by
11 percent, reveals a new
report from Oxfam today. The report is being launched as political and business
leaders gather for the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. ‘Public Good or Private
Wealth’ shows the growing gap between rich and poor is undermining the
fight against poverty, damaging our economies and fuelling public anger across
the globe.  It reveals how governments are exacerbating inequality by
underfunding public services, such as healthcare and education, on the one
hand, while under
taxing corporations and the wealthy, and failing to clamp down on tax
dodging, on the other.  It
also finds that women and girls are hardest hit by rising economic inequality. Winnie Byanyima, Executive Director of Oxfam
International, said: “The size of your bank account should not dictate how
many years your children spend in school, or how long you live – yet this is
the reality in too many countries across the globe. While corporations and the
super-rich enjoy low tax bills, millions of girls are denied a decent education
and women are dying for lack of maternity care.” The report reveals that the number of billionaires has
almost doubled since the financial crisis, with a new billionaire created every
two days between 2017 and 2018, yet wealthy individuals and corporations are
paying lower rates of tax than they have in decades. ·      Getting the richest one percent to pay just 0.5
percent extra tax on their wealth could raise more money than it would cost to
educate the 262 million children out of school and provide healthcare that
would save the lives of 3.3 million people. ·      Just four cents in every dollar of tax revenue
collected globally came from taxes on wealth such as inheritance or property in
2015. These types of tax have been reduced or eliminated in many rich countries
and are barely implemented in the developing world. ·      Tax rates for wealthy individuals and corporations
have also been cut dramatically. For example, the top rate of personal income
tax in rich countries fell from 62 percent in 1970 to just 38 percent in 2013.
The average rate in poor countries is just 28 percent. ·       In some countries, such as Brazil, the poorest 10
percent of society are now paying a higher proportion of their incomes in tax
than the richest 10 percent. At the same time, public services are
suffering from chronic underfunding or being outsourced to private companies
that exclude the poorest people.  In many countries a decent
education or quality healthcare has become a luxury only the rich can afford.
Every day 10,000 people die because they lack access to affordable healthcare.
In developing countries, a child from a poor family is twice as likely to die
before the age of five than a child from a rich family. In countries like Kenya
a child from a rich family will spend twice as long in education as one from a
poor family. Cutting taxes on wealth predominantly benefits men who
own 50 percent more wealth than women globally, and control over 86
percent of corporations. Conversely, when public services are neglected poor
women and girlssuffer most. Girls are pulled out of school first when the money
isn’t available to pay fees, and women clock up hours of unpaid work looking
after sick relatives when healthcare systems fail. Oxfam estimates that if all
the unpaid care work carried out by women across the globe was done by a single
company it would have an annual turnover of $10 trillion – 43 times that of
Apple, the world’s biggest company. “People across the globe are angry and
frustrated.  Governments must now deliver real change by ensuring
corporations and wealthy individuals pay their fair share of tax and investing
this money in free healthcare and education that meets the needs of everyone –
including women and girls whose needs are so often overlooked. Governments can
build a brighter future for everyone – not just a privileged few,” added Byanyima.