Geneva, Switzerland, 17 December 2019 – The time it will take to
close the gender gap narrowed to 99.5 years in 2019. While an improvement on
2018 – when the gap was calculated to take 108 years to close – it still means
parity between men and women across health, education, work and politics will take
more than a lifetime to achieve. This is the finding of the World Economic
Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2020, published today. According to the report, this year’s improvement can largely be ascribed
to a significant increase in the number of women in politics. The political
gender gap will take 95 years to close, compared to 107 years last year. Worldwide
in 2019, women now hold 25.2% of parliamentary lower-house seats and 21.2% of
ministerial positions, compared to 24.1% and 19% respectively last year. Politics, however, remains the area where least progress has been made
to date. With Educational Attainment and Health and Survival much closer to
parity on 96.1% and 95.7% respectively, the other major battlefield is economic
participation. Here, the gap widened in 2019 from 58.1% in 2018 to 57.8%. Looking
simply at the progress that has been made since 2006 when the World Economic
Forum first began measuring the gender gap, this economic gender gap will take
257 years to close, compared to 202 years last year. Economic Gap Widening The report attributes the economic gender gap to a number of factors. These
include stubbornly low levels of women in managerial or leadership positions,
wage stagnation, labour force participation and income. Women have been hit by
a triple whammy: first, they are more highly represented in many of the roles
that have been hit hardest by automation, for example, retail and white-collar
clerical roles. Second, not enough women are entering those professions – often but not
exclusively technology-driven – where wage growth has been the most pronounced.
As a result, women in work too often find themselves in middle-low wage
categories that have been stagnant since the financial crisis 10 years ago. Third, perennial factors such as lack of care infrastructure and lack of
access to capital strongly limit women’s workforce opportunities. Women spend
at least twice as much time on care and voluntary work in every country where
data is available, and lack of access to capital prevents women from pursuing
entrepreneurial activity, another key driver of income. “Supporting gender parity is critical to
ensuring strong, cohesive and resilient societies around the world. For
business, too, diversity will be an essential element to demonstrate that
stakeholder capitalism is the guiding principle. This is why the World Economic
Forum is working with business and government stakeholders to accelerate
efforts to close the gender gap,” said Klaus Schwab, Founder and Executive Chairman of
the World Economic Forum. Could the “Role Model
Effect” close the gender gap? One positive development is the possibility that a “role model effect”
may be starting to have an impact in terms of leadership and possibly also
wages. For example, in eight of the top 10 countries this year, high political
empowerment corresponds with high numbers of women in senior roles. Comparing
changes in political empowerment from 2006 to 2019 shows that improvements in
political representation occurred simultaneously with improvements in women in
senior roles in the labour market. While this is a correlation, not a causation, in OECD countries, where
women have been in leadership roles for relatively longer and social norms
started to change earlier, role model effects could contribute to shaping
labour market outcomes. Gender Inequality in
the Jobs of the Future Possibly the greatest challenge preventing the economic gender gap from
closing is women’s under-representation in emerging roles. New analysis conducted in partnership with
LinkedIn shows that women are, on average, heavily under-represented in most
emerging professions. This gap is most pronounced across our “cloud computing” job
cluster where only 12% of all professionals are women. The situation is hardly
better in “engineering” (15%) and “Data and AI” (26%), however women do
outnumber men in two fast-growing job clusters, “content production” and
“people and culture”. According to our
data, this reality presents leaders intent on addressing the gender gap in the
future with two key challenges. The first and most obvious challenge is that
more must be done to equip women with the skills to perform the most in-demand
jobs. Indeed, there is an economic cost of not doing so as skills shortages in these
professions hold back economic growth. The second is
possibly more complex. According to our data, even where women have the relevant
in-demand skillset they are not always equally represented. In data science,
for example, 31% of those with the relevant skillset are women even though only
25% of roles are held by women. Likewise, there is no gender gap in terms of
skills when it comes to digital specialists, however only 41% of these jobs are
performed by women. These facts point
to three key strategies that must be followed to hardwire gender equality into
future workforces: to ensure women are equipped in the first place – either
through skilling or reskilling – with disruptive technical skills; to follow-up
by enhancing diverse hiring; and to create inclusive work cultures. “Insights from
LinkedIn’s Economic Graph can help policymakers, business leaders, and
educators understand and prepare for how women will be represented in the
future workforce. Our data shows that meaningful action is needed to build the
systems and talent pipelines required to close the gender gap in tech and
ensure women have an equal role in building the future,” said Allen Blue,
Co-Founder and Vice-President, Product Strategy, LinkedIn. What the Forum is
Doing to Close the Gender Gap The World Economic Forum’s Platform for Shaping the Future of the New
Economy and Society aims to close economic gender gaps through both in-country
and global industry work. Through Closing the Gender Gap Accelerators, the
Forum drives change by setting up action coalitions between relevant ministries
and the largest employers in the country to increase female labour force
participation, the number of women in leadership positions, closing wage gaps
and preparing women for jobs of the future. Additionally, the global business
commitment on Hardwiring Gender Parity in the Future of Work mobilizes
businesses to commit to hiring 50% women for their five highest growth roles
between now and 2022. Finally, the Forum has committed to at least double the
current percentage of women participants at the Annual Meeting in Davos-Klosters,
Switzerland, by 2030. “To get to parity in the next decade instead of the next two centuries,
we will need to mobilize resources, focus leadership attention and commit to
targets across the public and private sectors. Business-as-usual will not close
the gender gap – we must take action to achieve the virtuous cycle that parity
creates in economies and societies,” said Saadia Zahidi, Head of the Centre for
the New Economy and Society and Member of the Managing Board, World Economic
Forum. The Global Gender
Gap in 2020 Nordic countries continue to lead the way to
gender parity. Iceland (87.7%) remains the
world’s most gender-equal country, followed by Norway (2nd, 84.2%), Finland (3rd,
83.2%) and Sweden (4th, 82.0%). Other economies in the top 10 include Nicaragua
(5th, 80.4%), New Zealand (6th, 79.9%), Ireland (7th, 79.8%), Spain (8th, 79.5%),
Rwanda (9th, 79.1%) and Germany (10th, 78.7%). Among the countries that improve the most this
year are Spain in Western Europe, Ethiopia in Africa, Mexico in Latin America,
and Georgia in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. These countries all improved
their positions in the ranking by more than 20 places, largely driven by improvements
in the political empowerment dimension. Western Europe is the best
performing region for the 14th consecutive year. With an average
score of 76.7% (out of 100), the region has now closed 77% of its gender gap,
further improving from last edition. At the current pace, it will take 54 years
to close the gap in Western Europe. The region is home to the four most
gender-equal countries in the world, namely in order Iceland (87.7%), Norway
(84.2%) and Finland (83.2%) and Sweden (82.0%), and one country (Spain, 8th)
is among the most improved countries this year. The North America region
regroups the United States (72.4%, 53rd) and Canada (77.2%, 19th). Both
countries’ performances are stalling, especially in terms of economic
participation and opportunity. At this rate it will take 151 years to close the
gap. The Eastern Europe and Central Asia
region has closed 71.5% of its gender gap so far with a slight improvement
since last year. To date the time to fully close its overall gender gap is
estimated to be 107 years. The region has fully closed its educational gap and
has improved women’s political empowerment which however remains only closed at
15%. 21 of the 26 countries in this region have closed at least 70% and the
top-ranked country, Latvia, 11th has closed 78.5% of its gap. The Latin
America and the Caribbean region has closed 72.1% of its gender gap so far,
progressing 1 percentage points since last year. At this rate it will take 59
years to close the gender gap. The most noticeable improvement is on the
Political empowerment dimension where the region closes its gap by 5 percentage
points. Led my Nicaragua that has closed 80.4% of its gap (5th), 15
of the 24 countries covered by the report have improved their overall scores.
Among the most improved countries, Mexico reduced its gender gap by 3.4 points
on a year-over-year basis. The Sub-Saharan
Africa region has closed 68.0% of its gender gap so far. This result is a
significant progress since last edition which leads to revise down the number
of years it will take to close the gender gap, which is now estimated at 95
years. The region is home of one of the top-ten countries overall Rwanda (9th)
while another 21 countries have improved their performances since last year,
including Ethiopia (82nd) one of the best improved this year
globally. The East Asia and Pacific Region has
closed 69% of the overall gender gap. If the region maintains the same rate of
improvement as the 2006-2019 period, and given the current gap, it will take
another 163 years to close the gender gap, the most time of any region. The
region has improved on three of the four gender gap dimensions and has been the
only region where political empowerment gap has widened (16% closed so far).
The best performing country is New Zealand    6th,
which has closed 79.9% of its gap. It is followed by the Philippines 16th
with 78.1% closed and Lao PDR, 43rd with a score of 73.1%. South Asia region has closed two thirds of its gender gap. The
region’s gender gap is the second largest despite a progress of 6 points over
the past 14 years. If the rate of progress of the past 15 years was to continue
it will take 71 years to close the region’s gender gap. However, in contrast
with the overall’s performance, the region’s Economic participation and
opportunity gap widens this year. Bangladesh (50th) leads the
region, while the second ranked country, Nepal, lags several positions behind
(101th) The Middle East
and North Africa (MENA) region obtains the lowest score (61.1%) despite
having narrowed its gap by 0.5 points since last year. Assuming the same rate
of progress going forward it will take approximately 150 years to close the
gender gap in the MENA region. The two most highly ranked countries in the
region are Israel          (64th)
with a closed gap to date of 71.8% and the United Arab Emirates (120th)
with a score of 65.5%. 15 of the 19 countries in this region rank 130th
or lower. Platform
for Shaping the Future of the New Economy and Society The Global Gender Gap Report is a flagship publication of the World
Economic Forum’s Platform for Shaping the Future of the New Economy and
Society. The Platform provides the opportunity to advancing prosperous,
inclusive and equitable economies and societies. It focuses on co-creating a
new vision in three interconnected areas: growth and competitiveness;
education, skills and work; and equality and inclusion. Working together,
stakeholders deepen their understanding of complex issues, shape new models and
standards and drive scalable, collaborative action for systemic change. Over 100 of the world’s leading
companies and 100 international, civil society and academic organizations
currently work through the Platform to promote new approaches to
competitiveness in the Fourth Industrial Revolution economy; deploy education
and skills for tomorrow’s workforce; build a new pro-worker and pro-business
agenda for jobs; and integrate equality and inclusion into the new economy,
aiming to reach 1 billion people with improved economic opportunities.