Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Africa’s growing youth population, rapid urbanisation and the increased purchasing power of these consumers, are key factors that are driving this massive US$500 billion retail ecosystem. This high growth industry needs to be equipped with the latest innovation and communication tools to further sustain the growth and attract the right target audience, especially the millennials. Retail is all about consumer experience and SGI Dubai (http://bit.ly/2EFejER) 2020, a 23-year old trade show that heavily caters to this rapidly burgeoning retail signage and printing industries is the ideal destination for African retail establishments.  The SGI Dubai (http://bit.ly/2EFejER) show currently in its 23rd consecutive year will be held at the iconic, Dubai World Trade Centre, from January 12th to 14th 2020. This show also coincides with the city’s mega shopping festival that attracts millions of visitors from across the globe. The trade visitors from Africa can also get preferential rates from the hotels and airlines. They can avail this benefit by registering their visit on the SGI Dubai website http://bit.ly/2EFejER and also liaising with the SGI Dubai team to further confirm their registration. Right from LED shop front signage, way finding systems, visual merchandising systems, digital display, LED slim lightboxes, acrylic display stands, podiums, promotional banners, kiosks, gondolas and flags among all the other latest innovative digital display screens, are being featured under one SGI Dubai (http://bit.ly/2EFejER) platform especially for the African retail sector. This ideal trade show is a platform that will further nurture this industry into tomorrow’s revenue spinner for the African economies. Sharif Rahman, CEO, International Expo Consults, organisers of the SGI Dubai show stated, “It is important to strategize your ‘go-to market’ strategy. To create and drive a strategic market entry approach into the region, one needs to comprehend the complex retail structure that drives the retail industry. The signages both traditional and digital coupled with the wide format printing industry will all become an integral elements of the retail industry. We welcome hundreds of visitors from the African region year-on-year. The visitors are particularly from Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, Sudan, Uganda, Ghana, Namibia, Tanzania, Egypt and Libya among other African nations. “The geographical proximity of our show provides an accessible platform for the African business owners to source top of the line machines with the latest technology. Bypassing the middleman, the visitors to the show are able to get the most competitive rates directly from the exhibitors and manufacturers of the top brands”, added Sharif. SGI Dubai 2020, is a must attend event for African sign-makers, print and production manufacturers, media agencies, mall owners, car wrapping industry, real-estate developers, hospitality and tourism industries, 3D printing industry, architects, brand and image consultants among other stakeholders. Africa is home to 55 independent states, which are characterized by diverse economies, and consumption patterns. Africa offers attractive opportunities for entities wishing to expand into new frontier markets. Retailing contributions to GDP across the region continue to increase, indicating that the region is consumption driven. “SGI Dubai show has been utilised as a platform to introduce and launch numerous brands in the region and provides a unique opportunity for visitors to research and make informed business decisions amongst all the leading brands under one roof”, added Rahman. In addition to the existing digital printing, signage, textile printing, screen printing, retail and LED categories the show will have a renewed focus on digital display, labelling & branding, metal cutting & engraving, spare parts & consumable, artificial intelligence, software and paper sectors. SGI Dubai 2020 will also include car wrapping displays, seminars and workshops conducted by industry experts under the banner of ‘Knowledge Series 2020’. During the previous edition SGI Dubai welcomed over 330 global exhibitors from across 30+ countries and registered thousands of trade visitors from around the world. SGI Dubai is an ideal converging point where visitors and exhibitors can influence and engage with architects, sign makers, print and production manufacturers, media agencies, real-estate developers, brand and image consultants among others. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of International Expo-Consults (IEC). Media Contact: Prem A. Ramachandran Managing Director White Water Public Relations GSM: 0097150-4537253 PO. Box 18936, Dubai, UAE Email: prem@whitewaterpr.com | https://WhiteWaterPR.com/ About International Expo-Consults (IEC): International Expo-Consults (IEC) (https://IECDubai.com) is an internationally recognized trade show management company with an impressive track record of 27 years of operations in the Middle East and Asia Pacific region. The Exhibition arm of the Dubai-based conglomerate, the Falak Holding; IEC is the organiser of key exhibitions including Sign and Graphics Imaging (SGI Dubai) and the Dubai, Entertainment, Amusement and Leisure (DEAL). Dubai-based conglomerate, Falak Holding has been an industry pioneer for the last 36 years having diversified business interests. Falak Holding is also a key stakeholder and investor in the prestigious Dubai Sports City project. Kindly log on to http://bit.ly/2EFejER for more information on the show. Media filesDownload logo