By Kerry A. Dolan Altogether, the 20 African tycoons are worth $68.7 billion,
down from $75.4 billion for last year’s list. However, the average net worth
for each list member this year has climbed to $3.4 billion from $3.3 billion in
early 2018. Buffeted by plunging stock prices and weaker currencies, the
number of African billionaires has shrunk to just 20, down from 23 a year ago.
Four people fell off Forbes’ annual list of the continent’s richest since last
year while one returned to the ranks after a four-year absence. All but four
members of the list have smaller fortunes than a year ago. For the eighth year in a row, Aliko Dangote of Nigeria is
Africa’s richest person. His estimated $10.3 billion net worth, however, is
nearly $2 billion less than a year ago, primarily due to a roughly 20% drop in
the stock price of Dangote Cement, his most valuable asset. The continent’s second richest is Mike Adenuga, also of
Nigeria, worth an estimated $9.2 billion. Adenuga owns Globacom, which is
Nigeria’s third largest mobile phone network, plus oil exploration firm Conoil
Producing, extensive real estate holdings in Nigeria, and a network of 12,000
cell phone towers. His net worth has climbed dramatically from $5.3 billion in
January 2018 as a result of more detailed information provided by him about his
assets. Number three in Africa is diamond heir Nicky Oppenheimer of
South Africa. His grandfather founded diamond mining firm DeBeers, which Nicky
ran and then sold to mining giant Anglo American for $5.1 billion cash in 2012.
He is currently worth an estimated $7.3 billion, down from $7.7 billion a year
ago. Among the few on the list who are richer than a year ago is
Strive Masiyiwa of Zimbabwe, worth an estimated $2.3 billion, up from $1.6
billion last year. He’s richer due to a rise in the share price of Econet
Wireless Zimbabwe and a new investment that boosted the value of his stake in
fiber optic and satellite services firm Liquid Telecom. In a per country ranking, Egypt and South Africa are tied
with five billionaires each, followed by Nigeria with four and Morocco with
two. Forbes found one billionaire each from Algeria, Angola, Tanzania and
Zimbabwe. The three South Africans who fell off since last year’s list
are Stephen Saad, founder of generics drug firm Aspen Pharmacare; Desmond
Sacco, chairman of iron ore mining company Assore Group; and Christoffel Wiese,
founder of retailer Pepkor and former chairman of furniture retailer Steinhoff
International, which acquired Pepkor in 2015. Steinhoff is still reeling from
an accounting scandal that was disclosed in December 2017, and shortly
afterwards, Wiese stepped down as chairman of the company. The fourth dropoff
is Onsi Sawiris of Egypt, who owns a stake in Netherlands-based fertilizer and
chemical producer OCI N.V. All four fell off due to a decline in the stock
price of their main asset. Nigerian cement mogul Abdulsamad Rabiu, who runs and owns
the BUA Group, returns to the list for the first time since 2015. He merged his
Kalambaina Cement firm into publicly-traded Cement Company of Northern Nigeria,
which he controlled, in late 2018. Rabiu now owns 97% of the list entity.
Kalambaina, which operates a new cement production facility, started selling cement
in mid-2018. Separately, Rabiu’s OBU Cement recently expanded its operations,
adding a new production line. Two of the 20 billionaires are women: Isabel dos Santos, the
daughter of Angola’s former president, Jose Eduardo dos Santos; and Folorunsho
Alakija of Nigeria. Dos Santos’ fortune declined to an estimated $2.3 billion,
down from $2.7 billion a year ago, primarily due to a drop in value of her
stock holdings in oil firm Galp and communications firm Nos – both in Portugal
– and a decline in the value of Angolan mobile telecom firm Unitel, of which
she owns 25%. Unitel is in an arbitration with one of its shareholders,
Brazilian telecom firm Oi, which claims it is owed $608 million in unpaid
dividends from five years through 2014. (Unitel did not respond to a request
for comment.) Nigeria’s Alakija owns a stake in one of the most productive
oil fields in Nigeria, currently operated by Chevron. Her net worth dropped due
a decline in the value of the oil field, in part because its production has
leveled off. Altogether, the 20 African tycoons are worth $68.7 billion,
down from $75.4 billion for last year’s list. However, the average net worth
for each list member this year has climbed to $3.4 billion from $3.3 billion in
early 2018. METHODOLOGY Our list tracks the wealth of African billionaires who
reside in Africa or have their primary businesses there, thus excluding
Sudanese-born billionaire Mo Ibrahim, who is a U.K. citizen, and billionaire
London resident Mohamed Al-Fayed, an Egyptian citizen. (Strive Masiyiwa, a
citizen of Zimbabwe and a London resident, appears on the list due to his
expansive telecom holdings in Africa.) We calculated net worths using stock
prices and currency exchange rates from the close of business on Friday,
January 4, 2019.  To value privately-held
businesses, we couple estimates of revenues or profits with prevailing
price-to-sales or price-to-earnings ratios for similar public companies. Some
list members grow richer or poorer within weeks– or days – of our measurement
date. 1. Aliko Dangote Net worth: $10.3 billion Origin of wealth: Cement, sugar, flour Age: 61 Country: Nigeria Nigeria is one of the best-kept secrets. A lot of foreigners
are not investing because they’re waiting for the right time. There is no right
time. Did You Know? Dangote’s grandfather
was a successful trader of rice and oats in Kano, Nigeria’s second largest
city. Dangote told Forbes
that when he was young, he bought sweets, gave them to others to sell, and he
kept the profits. 2 Adenuga, Nigeria’s second richest man, built his fortune in
telecom and oil production. His mobile phone network, Globacom, is the third
largest operator in Nigeria, with 43 million subscribers. His oil exploration
outfit, Conoil Producing, operates six oil blocks in the Niger Delta. Adenuga
got an MBA at Pace University in New York, supporting himself as a student by
working as a taxi driver. He made his first million at age 26 selling lace and
distributing soft drinks. 3. Nicky Oppenheimer & family Net worth: $7.3 billion Origin of wealth: Diamonds Age: 73 Country: South Africa Oppenheimer, heir to his family’s fortune, sold his 40%
stake in diamond firm DeBeers to mining group Anglo American for $5.1 billion
in cash in 2012. He was the third generation of his family to run DeBeers, and
took the company private in 2001. For 85 years until 2012, the Oppenheimer
family occupied a controlling spot in the world’s diamond trade. In 2014,
Oppenheimer started Fireblade Aviation in Johannesburg, which operates chartered
flights with its fleet of three planes and two helicopters. He owns at least
720 square miles of conservation land across South Africa, Botswana and
Zimbabwe. Did You Know? Oppenheimer owns Tswalu Kalahari Reserve, the largest
private game reserve in South Africa. Oppenheimer is a sports fan and plays squash, golf and
cricket. Notepads in his office read: “Things I must do before cricket”. 4. Nassef Sawiris Net worth: $6.3 billion Origin of wealth: Construction, chemicals Age: 57 Country:  Egypt Nassef Sawiris is a scion of Egypt’s wealthiest family. His
brother Naguib is also a billionaire. Sawiris split Orascom Construction
Industries into two entities in 2015: OCI and Orascom Construction. He runs
OCI, one of the world’s largest nitrogen fertilizer producers, with plants in
Texas and Iowa; it trades on the Euronext Amsterdam exchange. Orascom
Construction, an engineering and building firm, trades on the Cairo exchange
and Nasdaq Dubai. His holdings include stakes in cement giant Lafarge Holcim
and Adidas; he sits on the supervisory board of Adidas. Did You Know? A University of Chicago graduate, he donated $20 million to
the school in 2015 to fund scholarships in his father’s name for Egyptian
students. Nassef Sawiris teamed up with Fortress Investment Group’s
Wes Edens to purchase a majority stake in Aston Villa Football Club. 5. Johann Rupert & family Net worth: $5.3 billion Origin of wealth: Luxury goods Age: 68 Country: South Africa Rupert is chairman of Swiss luxury goods firm Compagnie
Financiere Richemont. The company is best known for the brands Cartier and
Montblanc. It was formed in 1998 through a spinoff of assets owned by Rembrandt
Group Limited (now Remgro Limited), which his father Anton formed in the 1940s.
He owns a 7% stake in diversified investment firm Remgro, which he chairs, as
well as 25% of Reinet, an investment holding co. based in Luxembourg. In recent
years, Rupert has been a vocal opponent of plans to allow fracking in the
Karoo, a region of South Africa where he owns land. Did You Know? He also owns part of the Saracens English rugby team and
Anthonij Rupert Wines, named after his deceased brother. Rupert says his biggest regret was not buying half of Gucci
when he had the opportunity to do so for just $175 million. 6. Issad Rebrab & family Net worth: $3.7 billion Origin of wealth: Food Age: 75 Country: Algeria Issad Rebrab is the founder and CEO of Cevital, Algeria’s
biggest privately-held company. Cevital owns one of the largest sugar
refineries in the world, with the capacity to produce 2 million tons a year.
Cevital owns European companies, including French home appliances maker Groupe
Brandt, an Italian steel mill and a German water purification company. Rebrab
has plans to build a steel mill in Brazil to produce train tracks and improve
transportation logistics for sugar, corn and soy flour exports. His five
children work at Cevital. Did You Know? Rebrab is the son of militants who fought for Algeria’s
independence from France. Cevital helped finance a biopic on Algerian resistance hero
Larbi Ben M’hidi, who was executed by the French in 1957. We [Algerians] have great potential; we can make up for lost
time. 7. Naguib Sawiris Net worth: $2.9 billion Origin of wealth: Telecom Age: 64 Country: Egypt Naguib Sawiris is a scion of Egypt’s wealthiest family. His
brother Nassef is also a billionaire. He built a fortune in telecom, selling
Orascom Telecom in 2011 to Russian telecom firm VimpelCom (now Veon) in a
multibillion-dollar transaction. He’s chairman of Orascom Telecom Media &
Technology–renamed Orascom Investment Holding to reflect investments in other
sectors. Family holding La Mancha has stakes in Evolution Mining, Endeavour
Mining and Golden Star Resources, which operate gold mines in Africa and
Australia. In 2017, he shifted ownership of La Mancha to his mother, Yousriya
Loza-Sawiris, for estate planning purposes. I want to feel good about having done something good.
Provide me with the island and I will do the rest. 8. Koos Bekker Net
worth: $2.3 billion Origin
of wealth: media, investments Age: 66 Country: South
Africa Bekker is revered for transforming South African newspaper
publisher Naspers into an ecommerce investor and cable TV powerhouse. He led
Naspers to invest in Chinese Internet and media firm Tencent in 2001 – by far
the most profitable of the bets he made on companies elsewhere. Naspers has a
31% stake in Tencent, and Bekker serves as a non-executive director at the
Chinese company. It sold a 2% stake in Tencent in March 2018, its first time reducing
its holding, but stated at the time it would not sell again for 3 years.
Bekker, who retired as the CEO of Naspers in March 2014, returned as chairman
in April 2015. Did You Know? His Babylonstoren estate, nearly 600 acres in South Africa’s
Western Cape region, features architecture dating back to 1690, a farm, orchard
and vineyard and more. Over the summer of 2015, he sold more than 70% of his
Naspers shares. 8. Isabel dos Santos Net
worth: $2.3 billion Origin
of wealth: Investments Age: 45 Country: Angola Dos Santos is the oldest daughter of Angola’s longtime
former president, Jose Eduardo dos Santos, who stepped down in fall 2017. Her
father made her head of Sonangol, Angola’s state oil firm, in June 2016, but
Angola’s new president removed her from that role in November 2017. Forbes
research found that while president, Isabel’s father transferred to her stakes
in several Angolan companies, including banks and a telecom firm. She owns
shares of Portuguese companies, including telecom and cable TV firm Nos SGPS. A
spokesperson for Isabel told Forbes that she “is an independent business woman
and a private investor representing solely her own interests.” Did You Know? Isabel dos Santos is nicknamed “the princess” in Angola. Santos’ mother, Tatiana Kukanova, met her father while he
was a student in Azerbaijan. The couple later divorced. 8. Mohamed Mansour Net worth: $2.3 billion Origin of wealth: Diversified Age: 70 Country: Egypt Mansour oversees family conglomerate Mansour Group, which
was founded by his father Loutfy (D.1976) in 1952 and has 60,000 employees.
Mansour established General Motors dealerships in Egypt in 1975, later becoming
one of GM’s biggest distributors worldwide. Mansour Group also has exclusive
distribution rights for Caterpillar equipment in Egypt and seven other African
countries. He served as Egypt’s Minister of Transportation from 2006 to 2009
under the Hosni Mubarak regime. His brothers Yasseen and Youssef, who share
ownership in the family group, are also billionaires; his son Loutfy heads
private equity arm Man Capital. Did You Know? Mansour’s father lost his fortune, when Egypt’s then
president, Gamal Abdel Nasser, expropriated his cotton trading company in 1964. Mansour worked as a busboy in a pizza parlor while at North
Carolina State University to pay for college. Empowering best in class management teams is the only way to
transform a local player into a diversified conglomerate with multinational
exposure. 8. Strive Masiyiwa Net worth: $2.3 billion Origin of wealth: Telecom Age: 57 Country: Zimbabwe Masiyiwa overcame protracted government opposition to launch
mobile phone network Econet Wireless Zimbabwe in his country of birth in 1998.
He owns just over 50% of the publicly-traded Econet Wireless Zimbabwe, which is
one part of his larger Econet Group. Masiyiwa also owns just over half of
private company Liquid Telecom, which provides fiber optic and satellite
services to telecom firms across Africa. His other assets include stakes in
mobile phone networks in Burundi and Lesotho, and investments in fintech and
power distribution firms in Africa. He and his wife Tsitsi founded the
Higherlife Foundation, which supports orphaned and poor children in Zimbabwe,
South Africa, Burundi and Lesotho. Did You Know? After studying at university in Britain, Masiyiwa worked at
ZPTC, Zimbabwe’s phone company. He left ZPTC to start an engineering services firm, then
sold it and founded Econet Wireless Zimbabwe, but had to battle the government
in court for years. 8. Patrice Motsepe Net worth: $2.3 billion Origin of wealth: Mining Age: 56 Country: South Africa Motsepe, the founder and chairman of African Rainbow
Minerals, became a billionaire in 2008 – the first black African on the Forbes
list. In 2016, he launched a new private equity firm, African Rainbow Capital,
focused on investing in Africa. Motsepe also has a stake in Sanlam, a listed
financial services firm, and is the president and owner of the Mamelodi
Sundowns Football Club. He became the first black partner at law firm Bowman
Gilfillan in Johannesburg, and then started a contracting business doing mine
scut work. In 1994, he bought low-producing gold mine shafts and later turned
them profitable. Did You Know? In 2013, the mining magnate was the first African to sign
Bill Gates’ and Warren Buffett’s Giving Pledge, promising to give at least half
his fortune to charity. Motsepe benefited from South Africa’s Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) laws, mandating that companies be at least 26% black-owned to get a government mining license. 13. Aziz Akhannouch & family Net worth: $2.1 billion Origin of wealth: Petroleum,
diversified Age: 58 Country: Morocco Aziz Akhannouch is the majority
owner of Akwa Group, a multibillion-dollar conglomerate founded by his father
and a partner, Ahmed Wakrim, in 1932. It has interests in petroleum, gas and
chemicals through publicly-traded Afriquia Gaz and Maghreb Oxygene.       
Akhannouch is Morocco’s Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries and the president
of a royalist political party. 14. Mohammed Dewji Net worth: 1.9 billion Origin of wealth: 
Diversified Age: 43 Country: Tanzania Mohammed Dewji is the CEO of METL, a Tanzanian conglomerate
founded by his father in the 1970s. METL is active in textile manufacturing,
flour milling, beverages and edible oils in eastern, southern and central
Africa. METL operates in at least six African countries and has ambitions to
expand to several more. Dewji, Tanzania’s only billionaire, signed the Giving
Pledge in 2016, promising to donate at least half his fortune to philanthropic
causes. Did You Know? Dewji retired from Tanzania’s parliament in early 2015 after
completing two terms. Dewji, who is known as Mo (short for Mohammed), launched Mo
Cola several years ago to compete with Coca-Cola. 15. Othman Benjelloun & family Net worth: $1.7 billion Origin of wealth: Banking, insurance Age: 86 Country: Morocco Benjelloun is CEO of BMCE Bank of Africa, which has a
presence in more than 20 African countries. His father was a shareholder in RMA
Watanya, a Moroccan insurance company; Benjelloun built it into a leading
insurer.  Through his holding company
FinanceCom, he has a stake in the Moroccan arm of French telecom firm Orange.
Benjelloun inaugurated a $500 million plan to build the 55-story Mohammed VI
Tower in Rabat. It will be one of the tallest buildings in Africa. FinanceCom
is part of a project to develop a multibillion-dollar tech city in Tangiers
that is expected to host 200 Chinese companies. Did You Know? He co-owns Ranch Adarouch, one of the biggest cattle
breeders in Africa. Benjelloun and his wife received the David Rockefeller
Bridging Leadership Award for building schools in rural Morocco in 2016. 16. Abdulsamad Rabiu Net worth: 1.6 billion Origin of wealth: Cement, sugar Age: 58 Country: Nigeria Rabiu is the founder of BUA Group, a Nigerian conglomerate
active in cement production, sugar refining and real estate. In December 2018,
Rabiu merged his privately-owned Kalambaina Cement company with listed firm
Cement Co. of Northern Nigeria, which he controlled. His BUA Group also owns Obu
Cement, which expanded its production with a new line in 2018. Rabiu, the son
of a businessman, inherited land from his father. He set up his own business in
1988 importing iron, steel and chemicals. 17. Yasseen Mansour Net worth: $1.5 billion Origin of wealth: 
Diversified Age: 57 Country: Egypt Mansour is a shareholder in family-owned conglomerate
Mansour Group, which was founded by his father Loutfy (d.1976) in 1952. Mansour
Group is the exclusive distributor of GM vehicles and Caterpillar equipment in
Egypt and several other countries. His brothers Mohamed and Youssef are also
billionaires and part owners of Mansour Group. He’s chairman of Palm Hills
Developments, one of Egypt’s biggest real estate developers. Did You Know? U.S. private equity firm Ripplewood has a stake in Palm
Hills Developments. Mansour Group is the sole franchisee of McDonald’s in Egypt,
as well as the distributor of Gauloises cigarettes. 18. Youssef Mansour Net
worth: $1.2 billion Origin
of wealth: Diversified Age: 73 Country: Egypt Mansour is chairman of family-owned conglomerate Mansour
Group, which was founded by his father Loutfy (d.1976) in 1952. Mansour Group
is the exclusive distributor of GM vehicles and Caterpillar equipment in Egypt
and several other countries. He oversees the consumer goods division, which
includes supermarket chain Metro, and sole distribution rights for L’Oreal in
Egypt. Younger brothers Mohamed and Yasseen are also billionaires and part
owners of Mansour Group. Did You Know? Former Egypt President Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalized his
father’s original cotton trading business. Mansour is a founding member of the American Egyptian
Chamber of Commerce. 19. Folorunsho Alakija Net worth: $1.1 billion Origin of wealth: Oil Age: 68 Country: Nigeria Folorunsho Alakija is vice chair of Famfa Oil, a Nigerian
oil exploration company with a stake in Agbami Oilfield, a prolific offshore
asset. Famfa Oil’s partners include Chevron and Petrobras. Alakija’s first
company was a fashion label whose customers included the wife of former
Nigerian president Ibrahim Babangida. The Nigerian government awarded Alakija’s
company an oil prospecting license in 1993, which was later converted to an oil
mining lease. The Agbami field has been operating since 2008; Famfa Oil says it
will likely operate through 2024. 19. Michiel Le Roux Net
worth: $1.1 billion Origin
of wealth: Banking Age: 69 Country: South
Africa Le Roux of South Africa founded Capitec Bank in 2001 and
owns about an 11% stake. The bank, which trades on the Johannesburg Stock
Exchange, targets South Africa’s emerging middle class. He served as chairman
of the board of Capitec from 2007 to 2016 and has continued on as a board
member. Le Roux previously ran Boland Bank, a small regional bank in Cape
Town’s hinterland. Did You Know? The bank has more than 800 branches and over 13,000
employees. Fellow South African Jannie Mouton’s PSG Group owns a 30%
stake in Capitec Bank