PRESS RELEASE DURBAN, 7 February 2019: Supermodel, Philanthropist, Activist and
Cultural Innovator Naomi Campbell, will headline this year’s FORBES WOMAN
AFRICA Leading Women Summit, hosted by KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Government,
taking place at Durban’s Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre
on International Women’s Day – Friday, 8 March. “We are truly honoured to be welcoming Naomi Campbell to the fourth
annual FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Leading Women Summit,” commented Methil Renuka,
Managing Editor of FORBES AFRICA and FORBES WOMAN AFRICA, and host of this
year’s event. “Having established herself as a global powerhouse in fashion, Naomi
Campbell has used her fame to benefit vulnerable communities, with much of her
charity work also focused on the African continent. We look forward to engaging
with her at this year’s ‘New Wealth Creators’ summit.” British-born Naomi Campbell was one of five
original supermodels that revolutionised the fashion industry during the 1990s.
Her work on the runway has seen her grace countless magazine covers, as well as
featuring in numerous television shows, music videos and films. Naomi Campbell has used her unique
position in the spotlight to draw attention to several international charities,
among them the Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund, Made in Africa Foundation,
amfAR, and Breast Health International. Her charity work started
alongside Nelson Mandela in 1993, with Madiba bestowing her the title of
‘Honorary Granddaughter’ for her ongoing activism. In 2005, Naomi Campbell established her own charity,
Fashion for Relief which has presented shows in New York, London, Cannes,
Moscow, Mumbai and Dar es Salaam, raising millions of dollars for various worthwhile
causes. Sihle Zikalala, the KwaZulu-Natal
Minister for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, said: “We
extend a warm welcome to this year’s headline speaker, Naomi Campbell. We look forward to engaging with her on topics
that will extend the positive impact women in this country, and on the
continent, are having globally. Her involvement in this event indicates the
calibre of this summit, and the strides being taken by African women. We are
proud to have been selected as the host venue for the fourth FORBES WOMAN
AFRICA Leading Women Summit as this gives us an opportunity to showcase the
incredible business opportunities and inviting natural beauty of the place we
call home.” Attendees to the summit, hosted in association with the IDC, will get
the chance to engage with a selection of the continent’s most influential women
through keynote addresses, panel discussions and personal interviews. In
addition to the daytime networking, attendees to the summit are invited to the
FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Awards’ – a glamorous gala dinner celebrating those who
have made a remarkable impact in the business, sports, science, entertainment
and leadership categories. The gala dinner will take place at Durban’s Inkosi
Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre. Ticket sales for this dynamic day are now open and includes full access
to the FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Leading Women Summit from 7am to 4pm and the FORBES
WOMAN AFRICA Awards’ Gala Dinner. Tickets are limited so book now! For more information, visit www.leadingwomensummit.co.za or follow
@LWSummit on various social media platforms (#LWS2019KZN). The FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Leading Women Summit and the FORBES WOMAN AFRICA
Awards’ Gala Dinner will be produced by ABN Event Productions.