Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Download logo To support the Federal Government of Somalia's continued efforts to degrade al-Shabaab, U.S. forces conducted an airstrike near a terrorist encampment location in the vicinity of Shebeeley, Hiran Region, Somalia, on January 30, 2019.  This precision airstrike is part of a larger effort to support the Somali National Army (SNA) as it increases pressure on the terrorist network and its recruiting efforts in the region. “We are partnered with the Federal Government of Somalia, and other international partners, to protect the people of Somalia,” said Marine Corps Maj. Gen. Gregg Olson, U.S. Africa Command director of operations.  “Precision strikes are part of our strategy.  Strikes continue to help our partners make progress in their fight against the transnational terrorists who oppose peace in Somalia and in the region.” The SNA and its partners will continue to effectively target terrorist training camps and assessed safe havens in order to deny al-Shabaab the ability to build capacity and attack the people of Somalia.  In particular, the group uses portions of southern and central Somalia to plot and direct terror attacks, steal humanitarian aid, extort the local populace to fund its operations, and shelter radical terrorists. U.S. Africa Command currently assesses this airstrike killed twenty-four militants. At this time, it was assessed no civilians were injured or killed in this airstrike. U.S. Africa Command will continue to work with its partners to transfer the responsibility for long-term security in Somalia from AMISOM to the Federal Government of Somalia and its Member States, and U.S. forces will use all effective and appropriate methods to protect the Somali people, including partnered military counter-terror operations with the Federal Government of Somalia, AMISOM and Somali National Army forces. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Regional Media Hub.