Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Download logo What: Presentation of the 2019 African Economic Outlook report  When: 8 February 2019  Location: Small Conference Hall 1, AU Headquarters, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.  Time: 8.30 – 10.30 am  The African Development Bank (www.AfDB.org) will present the 2019 edition of its flagship African Economic Outlook (https://bit.ly/2Djcpf8) (AEO) report on the sidelines of the 32nd Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the African Union in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on Friday, 8 February 2019, at 8.30 am.  The theme for this year’s African Economic Outlook (https://bit.ly/2Djcpf8) is “Integration for Africa’s Economic Prosperity.” The annual report highlights economic prospects and projections for the continent as a whole and for each of the 54 countries. It offers short- and medium-term forecasts on the main socio-economic factors, while at the same time examining the challenges and progress.  The report is the result of the work and analysis of the Bank's economic experts. It is a tool for policymakers, academics, investors, development and financial industry professionals and the press, and is widely used to inform policy dialogue and enhance operational efficiency of institutions.  The 2019 AEO was officially launched at the Bank’s Headquarters in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire on 17 January 2019. The Addis Ababa presentation will be followed by a press conference. The African Economic Outlook 2019 is available in English, French and Portuguese. Hashtag: #2019AEO Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contact:  African Development Bank:  Solange Kamuanga-Tossou Media Relations Tel +225 20 26 29 78 Email :  s.kamuanga-tossou@afdb.org African Union:  Djeinaba Kane  Department of Economic Affairs | African Union Commission I  E-mail: KaneD@africa-union.org  About the African Development Bank Group The African Development Bank Group (AfDB) (www.AfDB.org) is Africa’s premier development finance institution. It comprises three distinct entities: the African Development Bank (AfDB), the African Development Fund (ADF) and the Nigeria Trust Fund (NTF). On the ground in 31 African countries with an external office in Japan, the AfDB contributes to the economic development and the social progress of its 54 regional member states. For more information: www.AfDB.org 