Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Download logo Chambers & Partners has once again ranked Centurion (www.CenturionLG.com) as a Band 1 law firm in Equatorial Guinea. Chambers Global 2019 calls Centurion “a top firm in the market and are very well respected in the oil and gas industry”.  Chambers further states that Centurion is “a dominant firm in Equatorial Guinea with a market-leading natural resources practice. The team acts for public and private clients in the oil and gas sector and is involved in a number of the major projects in the country. Interviewees are quick to highlight its broad network of offices across Africa and capability in handling large transactional mandates.” Centurion is the only independent law firm ranked in Chambers’ Band 1 in Equatorial Guinea, recognising the contribution the firm has made to the energy sector and the firm’s impressive track record in advising on oil and gas deals. “It is a great feeling to be acknowledged by international peers, in an industry like ours where a good reputation means everything,” commented Anselmo Eworo Milan, Associate Attorney of Centurion Law Group. “The firm counts it a privilege to work with the leading oil companies in the country and the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons of Equatorial Guinea as they continue to take bold steps with their industry initiatives and local content targets. Their record is impeccable, and worth replicating through the rest of the continent.” The legal directory also gave the CEO of the firm, NJ Ayuk, a Band 1 ranking. Chambers continues, “Firm CEO NJ Ayuk is a pre-eminent figure in the hydrocarbons sector and writes widely on the industry. He is frequently mandated on oil and gas deals, acting for the government and private clients, and is noted for being “involved in the country's most important transactions.” Among other matters, he provides high-level advice on concessions, PSAs, drilling contracts and LNG projects.” In recent years, Centurion has been involved in Equatorial Guinea’s most important energy and business transactions, including acting as legal advisor to the government for the establishment of full legal and fiscal frameworks for mining and hydrocarbons and on their local content policies and framework, developing tailored programmes for the training of government officials and capacity building of industry regulators, facilitating the country’s entry into OPEC, advising its leading operators in the preparation and negotiation of their PSCs, and combining downstream gas monetization strategies for upstream operators looking to increase supply integration. The firm continues to partner with Equatorial Guinea as it rolls out its Year of Energy 2019, including the upcoming APPO CAPE VII Congress and Exhibition taking place in Malabo, from 2-5 April, and the Gas Exporting Countries Forum, featuring ministers and heads of state from all GECF nations on 26-29 November 2019. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Centurion Law Group. Media Contact : Unathi Twala Email: Unathi.twala@centurionlg.com   Mobile (SA): +27 78 093 9420  About Centurion Law Group : Centurion Law Group (www.CenturionLG.com) is a pan-African corporate law conglomerate, with a specialised focus on cross-border business and energy law. With headquarters in Johannesburg, South Africa, Centurion has offices in Equatorial Guinea, Ghana, Cameroon and Mauritius. Our affiliate firms are in Uganda, South Sudan, Chad, Congo-Brazzaville, Angola, Nigeria, Zambia, Gabon and Senegal. Our internationally trained lawyers are unrivalled oil and gas experts renowned for advising foreign investors, local companies, governments, other law firms and the private sector. Visit our website: www.CenturionLG.com