By Jared Jeffery, Political analyst,  NKC African Economists The
CEO of South African multinational telecommunications company MTN in Uganda,
Wim Vanhelleput, was deported on Thursday evening, February 14. He
becomes the fourth employee of the company to be deported in the last month as
the government piles pressure on MTN to list on the local bourse and
renegotiates its operating licence after 20 years. Authorities
have not given clear reasons for the deportations. Prior
to markets opening in Johannesburg on Friday, February 15, MTN issued a
statement saying it had not been notified of the grounds for the move. The
company’s group CEO, Rob Shuter, met with President Yoweri Museveni on the
sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Davos in January. Not much was
revealed about what they spoke about, but The East African quoted the president
as having said: “It is important that you float shares on the local stock
exchange to allow for local ownership now that the licence has been renewed.” The
newspaper also reports that the presidency issued a statement on January 23
stating that the dispute over the renewal of the licence had been resolved and
MTN had agreed to “spread its ownership to more Ugandans through a share
placement with the National Social Security Fund”. However, this statement was
not available on the State House website to confirm it and matters have clearly
not been resolved. It
appears Mr Museveni is taking a leaf out of Tanzanian President John Magufuli’s
book by forcing international companies to list on the stock exchange and
playing hardball with the renegotiation of agreements. However, the rhetoric
around events in Uganda is distinct from what we have seen in Tanzania. MTN
has been characterised as a ‘security threat’ whereas in Tanzania
multinationals are characterised as greedy companies that hinder development. These
different narratives speak to the sources of legitimacy for the leaders in each
country – in Tanzania Mr Magufuli gets his legitimacy from being clean and
bringing development, so his enemies must be greedy and hinder that aim. In
Uganda, Mr Museveni draws his legitimacy from having brought stability and
security, so his enemies must want incitement to violence and instability. In
July last year, MTN’s data centre was raided, reportedly by intelligence
services, an employee was taken and held for four hours and four of its servers
were disconnected. MTN subsequently laid a case of illegal intrusion against
those involved, but there has been no news of the case since. In
a letter on the incident, MTN wrote: “We are yet to determine the extent of
interruption to our network activities and the financial impact. It is also
possible that some data have been tempered with or illegally accessed and taken
from the premise (sic). The intrusion into the data was properly captured by
our closed-circuit television (CCTV cameras),” – so it seems they would have
solid evidence to support their case. Local
newspaper The Observer reported that one of the recent deportees, Italian Elsa
Mussolini (former general manager for mobile finance services), stated that she
was ejected from the country for inciting violence and funding opposition
member of Parliament (MP) Robert Kyagulanyi (Bobi Wine). The funding reportedly
took place during the campaign against the proposed social media tax that the
MP led. There
is clearly a lot going on between MTN and the Ugandan government: licence
renewals, stock exchange listings, data centre raids, opposition politician
funding, incitement to violence allegations, social media and mobile money
taxes, and possibly access to data on citizens. Aggressive
moves against multinationals on the continent are not a new phenomenon – MTN
has had its fair share of difficulties lately in Nigeria too. Taking
on international companies makes leaders look good, at least in the eyes of
some local citizens, but we also may be seeing a more regional phenomenon with
Mr Magufuli’s approach emboldening his neighbours. The
events do not bode well. With Mr Museveni facing mounting challenges to his
over three-decade rule in the run-up to elections in 2021, we could see more
erratic policies and fiery rhetoric over the next couple years.