Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. During the 69th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting, the Council and Foundation for the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Honoris United Universities (http://Honoris.net), the first private pan-African higher education network, to increase participation and to promote research in natural sciences and economics across Africa.  The ongoing 69th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting (#LINO19, June 30th to July 5th), dedicated to physics, is attended by 39 Nobel Laureates – including the 2018 Nobel Laureates in physics, Prof. Dr. Donna Strickland and Prof. Dr. Gerard Mourou. They meet with around 600 international young scientists from 89 countries for an inspiring dialogue covering subjects including dark matter, cosmology, laser physics and gravitational waves. Since its foundation in 1951, around 400 Nobel Laureates have attended the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings, which are held each year as a forum for scientists of different generations, cultures and disciplines to convene and exchange knowledge, ideas and experiences. The theme is alternated each year and is based on the three natural science Nobel Prize disciplines – physiology & medicine, physics and chemistry. An interdisciplinary meeting based around all three natural sciences is held every five years and a Lindau Meeting on economic sciences is held every three years. The MoU builds upon the institutions’ shared interest in supporting science capacity building and is designed to encourage regular participation of natural science and economics students from member institutions of the Honoris network. CEO of Honoris United Universities, Luis Lopez, said, “As we mark our second anniversary, this memorandum reflects Honoris’ increasing impact as a continent-wide educator and our growing international reputation for developing and promoting world-class African human capital. As an Academic Partner to the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings, Honoris’ researchers and doctors will have a unique opportunity to collaborate alongside the next generations of global leaders. This is a milestone that reinforces our academic excellence.” As part of the MoU, Honoris and the Council and Foundation will rigorously select a delegation of students and postgraduates in science and economics from member institutions in Africa to attend future Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings, including the 70th edition that will cover all themes, due to take place in 2020. “Africa is such a dynamic continent with so many promising young scientists. The Lindau Meetings are proud to foster the participation of African scientists for several years now. I am thus deeply grateful for the partnership with Honoris United Universities as it means a cornerstone in this important effort”, says Countess Bettina Bernadotte, President of the Council for the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Honoris United Universities. Honoris United Universities Contact: lkakon@honoris.net Honoris United Universities Press Office: Paschorina@djembeconsultants.com (English) Marjorie@djembeconsultants.com (French) For queries about the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings, please contact: Gero von der Stein Head of Communications gero.vonderstein@lindau-nobel.org About Honoris United Universities: Honoris United Universities (http://Honoris.net) is the first private pan-African higher education network committed to preparing and educating the next generation of African leaders and professionals able to impact regionally in a globalized world. Collaborative intelligence, cultural agility and mobile mind-sets and skills are at the heart of Honoris’ vision of higher education. Honoris United Universities joins the expertise of its member institutions to prepare pan-regional profile graduates that are competitive in today’s fast-paced and demanding labour markets. Honoris United Universities gathers a community of 32 000 students on 58 campuses, learning centers and via on-line, in 9 countries and 30 cities across Africa. The network counts 10 institutions: multidisciplinary universities, specialized schools, technical and vocational institutes, contact, distance and online institutions. Students have an opportunity to experience exclusive partnerships and exchange programs in more than 60 universities across Europe and the United States. Over 100 degrees are offered in Health Science, Engineering, IT, Business, Law, Architecture, Arts and Design, Media, Education and Political Science. Honoris United Universities. Education for Impact™. www.Honoris.net About The Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings: The Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings (www.Lindau-Nobel.org) foster the exchange among scientists of different generations, cultures, and disciplines. Once every year, around 30-40 Nobel Laureates convene in Lindau to meet the next generation of leading scientists: 600 undergraduates, PhD students, and post-doc researchers from all over the world. The Lindau Meetings cooperate with more than 200 of the most renowned science and research institutions worldwide to identify the most qualified participants. The scientific programme of each Lindau Meeting is based on the principle of dialogue. The different sessions – lectures, Agora Talks, Master Classes, and panel discussions – are designed to activate the exchange of knowledge, ideas, and experience between and among Nobel Laureates and young scientists. www.Lindau-Nobel.org Media filesDownload logo