Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group.
Download logo One of the principal tasks of the Africa Forum (“the Forum”) (www.AfricaForum.org) of former African Heads of State and Government and other African leaders is to support the African Union as it works to guide our Continent to achieve the Objectives detailed in the Constitutive Act.  In this context the Forum has done its best to follow the evolving but troubling situation in the Republic of Cameroon.  In this regard it has had the privilege to convey some of its views and suggestions to His Excellency President Paul Biya of Cameroon. The Forum looks forward to further contact with President Biya on this matter.  In the meantime the Forum has thought it very necessary that it should take all necessary steps further to inform itself about the situation in the Republic of Cameroon in as comprehensive a manner as possible.  To achieve this objective the Forum will therefore act to convene a Symposium on Cameroon to be held possibly in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia or any other African country which will agree with the Forum to provide a venue for the Symposium.  The Forum will therefore take steps without delay to contact a broad spectrum of the people of Cameroon and invite these to attend what the Forum intends must be an inclusive and open dialogue.  The Forum is convinced that the Symposium will help greatly to empower it the better to assist the Government and people of Cameroon as they work to address the challenges facing this sister African country. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Forum. Chairman Joaquim Alberto Chissano Former President Republic of Mozambique  Deputy Chair Nicephore Soglo Former President Republic of Benin.  7th Floor, Metro Park Building, 351 Cnr Schoeman and Prinsloo Street, Pretoria P.O Box 6541,Pretoria 0001 Republic of South Africa Tel:+27 12 354 8073 Ext. 8163 / 8178 8153 Fax:+27 12 354 8161 E-mail: jobn.tesha@africaforum.org 