Despite making up more than 40% of the agricultural workforce, women often do not benefit as much from the business end of the value chain where there are the most opportunities for income generation. By Sabdiyo Dido Bashuna, Senior Technical Adviser Value Chains & Agribusiness, Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural Cooperation (CTA) Women in rural Africa are among the most entrepreneurial people in the world, constantly finding ways to make ends meet with limited resources. They are
also expert multi-taskers, often tending to livestock and smallholdings while
also raising their families. Yet despite
making up more than 40% of the agricultural workforce,
women often do not benefit as much from the business end of the value chain
where there are the most opportunities for income generation. This
means that half of the population is missing out on the chance to fulfil their
potential, maximise their earnings, and benefit from better prospects for them
and their families. Not
only this, but the economy is missing out on valuable contributions while
producers could be overlooking key opportunities to reach new and bigger
markets. Studies
indicate that addressing
some of the constraints to women’s economic empowerment, particularly in rural
Africa, have greater returns on investments, for the family, economy and
society as a whole. For
example, an increase
of $10 to a woman’s income achieves the same improvements to children’s
health and nutrition as a $110 increase in a man’s income. Meanwhile, studies show that if women had the same access to
agricultural production resources as men, their productivity would increase by
between 20 to 30 per cent, with anticipated increase in agricultural GDP by 2.5
per cent. So what can
we do to help women thrive, not only as producers, but as agripreneurs? Firstly,
women need better access to high-value regional and global markets. Events such
as the VALUE4HER Women
in Agribusiness Conference, held in Nairobi this month, are instrumental in
connecting women producers with companies to establish new trade partners and
business deals. This might
mean linking crop farmers to processors who make use of their raw ingredients
in different food products to help reach urban or export markets, for example. Secondly,
women agripreneurs need support to develop their business management and leadership
skills so that they can grow their ventures. This kind
of training from business leaders not only benefits those who attend, but those
who come after, with learnings and skills cascading down throughout women’s
contacts and networks. Finally, women
agripreneurs need help forming the kind of well-established business networks
that exist for men. Digital
platforms that connect women to other agripreneurs can help them share
knowledge and information, achieve economies of scale and build business
skills. This
is why the launch of VALUE4HERConnect, the first digital agribusiness
intelligence network targeting African women during this event is so important. This new
digital platform will help women agripreneurs develop business relationships to
foster cooperation and learning. The
potential impact of improving women’s opportunities to enter agribusiness run
deep. Supporting
women to develop their agribusinesses not only allows them to increase their
household income, it also diversifies and enriches the food supply, helping to
make it more resilient. Promoting
women’s agribusinesses, then, is not only a viable route to increasing
livelihoods and prosperity for rural communities, it is also an enormous
opportunity to improve gender equality for a more prosperous, equitable world
for all.