By Gary van Staden, Senior Political Analyst, NKC African Economics Parties
that want to contest national and provincial elections in October have until
the end of July to submit their list of candidates to the national electoral
commission (CNE). Meanwhile, the armed opposition Mozambican National
Resistance (Renamo) party continues to squabble over its leadership. The
submission of candidate lists opened this week, July 2, and will end on August
1 ahead of the elections scheduled for October 15. A total of 39 parties and
coalitions have registered with the CNE to take part in the national and/or
provincial polls. Realistically,
only the ruling Mozambique Liberation Front (Frelimo) party, Renamo, and the
Mozambique Democratic Movement (MDM) that stunned Renamo last time out by
winning some seats in its backyard have any prospect of success. Frelimo
is expected to emerge victorious once again and Renamo is likely to claim fraud
and contest the outcome once again. Renamo’s
performance in the central and northern regions will be a key test of its
electoral appeal. Changes to the constitution will allow Renamo to select the
regional governor in those provinces where it obtains a majority, if any. Meanwhile,
local media reported in early July that a new group of Renamo fighters based in
Funhalouro district in the Inhambane interior have threatened to block the
demobilisation and disarmament process until the party’s leader, Ossufo Momade,
resigns. The
call comes after accusations that Mr Momade had removed those who did not
support him at the party’s congress earlier in the year. A
spokesperson for the Funhalouro group told media that there were 280 armed men
in the district – a claim likely to be unreliable given the total absence of
Renamo activity in the region for some time. The
new threats follow those made to media by Renamo dissidents in the central
province of Sofala in June when Major General Mariano Nhongo threatened that
dissidents would kill Mr Momade unless he resigned. The dissident fighters have
been labelled deserters and criminals by the Renamo leadership and their credibility
is in question. Their
claims that Brigadier Josefa de Sousa was executed on Mr Momade’s orders were
proved false when the “dead” brigadier appeared at a press conference to say
claims of his death had been exaggerated. With
electoral season now underway, there is a heightened possibility of renewed
dissident Renamo conflict in parts of the country, coupled with localised
Islamist fundamentalist activities in the Tanzania border regions that are
likely to attract media attention. We
do not believe that these activities pose a serious threat to overall stability
in the country. But given the proximity of the elections, they could prove
disruptive at times and closer to the polls, there is an increased prospect of
violence. Frelimo
remains the most likely winners of the polls, but we anticipate Renamo will
once again reject the outcome, allege widespread rigging, and possibly provoke
more short-term conflict. Dissident
Renamo activities are unlikely to have a major impact on stability or on
Renamo, as their numbers remain small and they are isolated.