While holding corrupt leaders accountable sends a powerful message, if Ramaphosa’s long-term strategy does not include investments in innovations that lead to prosperity creation, he’s effectively snipping the buds while the roots remain intact. By Efosa Ojomo In their paper
“The Rise of the Regulatory State,”Harvard University economists
Edward Glaeser and Andrei Schleifer wrote “whatever law enforcement strategy
the society chooses, private individuals will seek to subvert its workings to
benefit themselves.” In recent years, few African countries have exhibited that
theory better than South Africa. Before the ousting of the allegedly corrupt former president, Jacob Zuma, South Africa was engrossed in a web of corruption characterised as “state capture”: a severe level of corruption where private individuals influence the state to such an extent that they almost assume ownership of the state’s resources. At the center of
the web were the Gupta brothers, who rose to such prominence in South Africa
that The
New York Times reported “it became difficult to draw the
line between their business empire and the president’s office.” From high-level
cabinet appointments to the South African Revenue Services, corruption
permeated virtually every element of society, with much of it involving the
country’s leading political party, the ANC. But things appear
to be looking up for South Africa, where newly elected leader Cyril Ramaphosa
has vowed to tackle
corruption. In March he established a new Investigating Directorate within
the National Prosecution Authority (NPA). And since his election, various party
leaders facing corruption probes by the ANC Integrity Commission have delayed
taking their seats in parliament or have declined to do so. While holding
corrupt leaders accountable sends a powerful message, if Ramaphosa’s long-term
strategy does not include investments in innovations that lead to prosperity
creation, he’s effectively snipping the buds while the roots remain intact. For many,
engaging in corruption is simply a workaround—a means of making progress when
few better options exist. But the corrupt behavior exhibited by those within
the highest levels of government is something entirely different: the result of
an imbalance of power, in which those who have it use it to exploit those
without it. In contrast to the wealth and power of Zuma and the Gupta brothers,
more than half of South Africans live below the poverty line. Without financial
and political resources, it’s difficult for people living in poverty to
advocate for themselves. Thus, Zuma and his cronies succeeded in siphoning
funds away from public projects and programs for years because those who bore
the cost—the South African people—couldn’t do much about it. Ramaphosa’s best
shot at making a dent in corruption, then, is to not only investigate corrupt
individuals—a necessary short-term approach—but to also to double-down on his
market-oriented approach to development. If he’s able to help his country
become more prosperous, South Africans will not only have more bargaining
power, but the government will also be less vulnerable to exploitation and
better equipped to fight corruption. To achieve this
goal, his government can support investments in market-creating innovations
that solve everyday problems. Unlike other types of innovations, our research
has found that these innovations create the foundation for robust, sustainable
growth by transforming complex and expensive products into simple and
affordable ones, allowing more people to participate in the economy. They
create jobs, result in investments in infrastructure, and provide much-needed
tax revenue to the government that can then be reinvested in communities and
anti-corruption efforts. They also tend to strengthen
institutions once stronger legislative systems and more contextual
regulations become essential to sustaining and growing the new markets. In
short, these powerful innovations spur significant economic development, while
creating the conditions for good governance. As people become
more prosperous and drive economic growth, the power dynamic shifts such that
government leaders become more responsive to the people’s needs, recognizing a
mutual interest in seeing the economic engine of their country succeed. This is
exactly what happened in the United States, where corruption ran rampant from
the mid-19th century until the early 20th century. But as more Americans
created more wealth for themselves, their voices of dissatisfaction with
corruption became louder. “Politically, the rage of victims counted for very
little in 1840, not much in 1860; by 1890, it was a roaring force” is how
Stanford Law Professor Lawrence
Friedman put it. Corruption can be
found in virtually every country across the globe, but it’s especially
difficult to squash wherever people lack the ability to advocate for their own
interests, and governments lack the ability to adequately respond to their needs.
To that end, Ramaphosa must play the short game and the long game—trim the buds
and pull out the roots. By encouraging investments in market-creating
innovations, he can spearhead a new era of development, while simultaneously
creating the conditions for corruption to plummet and a stable, responsive
government to take its place. *Efosa Ojomo is a senior research fellow at the Clayton Christensen Institute, where he leads its Global Prosperity research. @GlobalCCI ###