Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group.
Download logo WHO: African Development Bank, Africa Finance Corporation  WHAT: African Investment Forum Roadshow WHERE: Transcorp Hilton, Abuja, Nigeria WHEN: July 9, 2019 at 8.30 am The African Development Bank Group (https://www.AfDB.org), and the Africa Finance Corporation, will meet industry and business leaders in Abuja, Nigeria on Monday, 09 July 2019 as part of a roadshow to woo investors ahead of its second Africa Investment Forum (AIF) in November. AIF − the continent’s biggest investment marketplace for accelerated economic transformation – is slated for 11-13 November 2019 in Johannesburg, South Africa. It is dedicated to advancing projects throughout Africa to bankable stages, raising capital, and accelerating the financial closure of deals. The Abuja roadshow targets chief executive officers, captains of industry, State governments and other key players that will re-affirm Nigeria’s investment-ready status. The event will build on the quantity and quality of deals brokered in 2018, as well as explore investment opportunities across the continent. By convening Nigeria’s premium project sponsors, borrowers, lenders and investors, the roadshow will showcase bankable projects, attract financing, and provide platforms for investing across multiple countries. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contact:  Fatimah Abubakar Alkali Communications Expert African Development Bank Nigeria Country Department (RDNG) Tel: +234 (9) 7002076 Mobile: +234 906 246 5098 Email: f.alkali@afdb.org About the African Development Bank Group: The African Development Bank Group (https://www.AfDB.org) is Africa’s premier development finance institution. It comprises three distinct entities: the African Development Bank (AfDB), the African Development Fund (ADF) and the Nigeria Trust Fund (NTF). On the ground in 41 African countries with an external office in Japan, the Bank contributes to the economic development and the social progress of its 54 regional member states. For more information: www.AfDB.org