Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group.
Download logo The closing date for the 2019 Africa Women Innovation and Entrepreneurship Forum (AWIEF) (https://www.AWIEForum.org) Awards nominations has been extended to Monday, 10 June 2019.  The extension gives more women entrepreneurs an opportunity to enter these prestigious, multi-industry awards, and be recognised for their contribution to Pan-African, social and economic agendas. Women entrepreneurs and business owners are invited to submit nominations in a range of categories, including youth, technology, agriculture and women empowerment in business. AWIEF has partnered with City of Cape Town, Shell South Africa and the Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural Cooperation (CTA-EU), to recognise and celebrate women for their passion and determination in making a difference in their countries and on the continent. Categories for the awards are: Young Entrepreneur Award, Tech Entrepreneur Award, Social Entrepreneur Award, Global Brand Award, Agri Entrepreneur Award, Empowerment Award, Creative Industry Award and Lifetime Achievement Award. Winners will be announced on the 30th of October at the Westin Hotel in Cape Town.  Previous winners include Wendy Luhabe, pioneered the founding of WIPHOLD, WPEF and more recently, WINDE; Bethlehem Tilahun Alemu, Founder of the global brand SoleRebels;  Nomso Faith Kana, Founder Sun and Shield Technologies; Lorna Rutto, Founder EcoPost; and many more.  Nomination guidelines: Nominations should only be made relating to achievements made by a female entrepreneur and national (or permanent resident) of an African country, with a registered business and operation in one or more African countries. Nominees can be nominated or self-nominated. A woman entrepreneur can be nominated for more than one category but different nomination forms must be completed. You may be asked to support or verify the evidence you supply as part of the nominations you make. Three nominees will be shortlisted for each category and invited to the AWIEF Awards ceremony in October of the same year. For more information on the 2019 AWIEF Awards, competition rules and nomination portal click here.(https://AWIEF.awardsplatform.com/) AWIEF support comes from global organisations such as UN Women, the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the European Union-funded Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural Cooperation (CTA). Partners and sponsors also include: Shell, Nedbank, City of Cape Town, Bank of Industry, Nigeria, GE, AGRA, Embassy of Sweden (Nigeria and South Africa), Embassy of Switzerland (South Africa), IDC, MTN Business, ARC, Johnson & Johnson, Old Mutual, Tsogo Sun and APO Group.  To book for #AWIEF2019 conference: https://bit.ly/2OQJ3qP Follow AWIEF on social media:Twitter (https://bit.ly/2Hn0fCf) & Facebook (https://bit.ly/2Yy3Vqm) @awieforum. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Women Innovation and Entrepreneurship Forum (AWIEF). Media Contact: AWIEF Team: Call +27 21 826 8878 or email info@awieforum.org  About AWIEF AWIEF (https://www.AWIEForum.org.) is a pan-African women’s economic empowerment organisation that promotes and supports female innovation, technology and entrepreneurship across Africa through a portfolio of high impact programmes. AWIEF’s mission is to foster the economic inclusion, advancement and empowerment of women in Africa through entrepreneurship support and development. AWIEF’s programmes and activities include accelerators, capacity-building and training, networking and mentorship, AWIEF Awards, AWIEF Digital Hub, and building the AWIEF community of African women entrepreneurs. The year-round activities culminate in convening and hosting the popular and widely attended annual international and multi-stakeholder AWIEF conference, exhibition and awards event, currently in its fifth edition.  Website: https://www.AWIEForum.org. 