Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Last week at FESPA 2019 (14th-17th May 2019, Messe Munich, Germany), Canon (www.Canon-CNA.com) presented game-changing innovations designed to help signage and graphics producers create high margin end-user products and improve operational efficiencies to fuel business growth.  The highlights of the Canon stand were as follows:  the newly launched Océ Colorado 1650 64” roll-to-roll printer featuring new Canon UVgel ink and Océ FLXfinish technology (see separate release) 	the Océ Colorado 1640 with automated inline print-and-cut workflow 	the first viewing of the Océ Arizona 1300 UV-flatbed printer series at an international event (see separate launch release) 	the Océ Arizona 6170 with High Flow Vacuum (HFV) for precise registration when working with rigid media 	the imagePROGRAF PRO-2000 24” large format printer using Water Resistant Media Driving new opportunities Visitors to the Canon stand discovered new technologies, stand-out creative applications and seamless end-to-end workflows designed to help them fuel their growth through improved production efficiency and by differentiating their product offering. To help customers unlock new application opportunities, Canon launched the Océ Colorado 1650 roll-to-roll printer at FESPA 2019. The new printer optimises productivity and performance of self-adhesive vinyls, wall coverings, canvasses, soft signage materials, front- and back-lit graphics as well as non-coated paper, and incorporates Océ FLXfinish technology, giving customers the choice of matte or gloss modes on the same media type without changing ink on one single machine for increased application versatility. The Océ Arizona 1380 GT model, part of the Océ Arizona 1300 printer series, has been presented for the first time at an international event following its January 2019 launch (see separate release). The UV-flatbed printer printed live both rigid and flexible media at FESPA 2019. It has also produced textured applications reliably and cost-effectively using Océ Touchstone, showing visitors how they can offer sophisticated and easy-to-use elevated printing, adding exciting tactile elements to print projects to achieve higher margins. The Océ Arizona 1380 GT is powered by Océ Arizona Xpert, a unique workflow software solution that allows you to create recipes for complex projects that can be repeated for true efficiency, helping customers to improve time to market. Accelerating operational efficiency Consistent with its commitment to help customers to optimise operational efficiencies, Canon has collaborated closely with finishing partner Fotoba to design a new automated print-and-cut solution for roll-to-roll applications produced using the Canon UVgel printers (Océ Colorado 1640 and 1650). Building on the technology preview shared at FESPA 2018, the solution – which will be commercially available later in 2019 – integrates the Océ Colorado roll-to-roll printer with the Fotoba XLD series cutter, enabling automated finishing of printed output, resulting in full-bleed applications without manual operation. An auto-loading module feeds the printed media roll from the printer into the cutter. This enables cutting to proceed automatically, eliminating manual operator intervention and production downtime from manual feeding. The 18 metre-per-minute operating speed achievable with the Fotoba XLD device is well matched to the ultra-fast printing speed of the Océ Colorado printers, enabling exceptional productivity for high-volume graphics applications, such as full-bleed posters. For customers seeking to streamline production with challenging media, such as corrugated board and plywood, the Océ Arizona 6170 was  demonstrated with High Flow Vacuum (HFV) which keeps substrates flat to the flatbed for precise registration, while reducing preparation time for operators. Linked with Océ ProCut workflow software, it showed visitors how automated cutting can remove the need for manual intervention and speed up production, enabling skilled resources to be redeployed in other areas of the business. As part of Canon’s extensive large format portfolio, stand visitors were able to see the 24” imagePROGRAF PRO-2000 printing on Water Resistant Media for signs, banners, posters, self-adhesive graphics and pop-up displays. There is no need for lamination when using Canon’s Water Resistant Media, thanks to its ink-receiving layer that consists of a binder with low water solubility. With a choice of options including matte polypropylene, self-adhesive and banner vinyl, the Water Resistant Media range offers an easy, quick and cost-effective choice for customers to produce indoor and outdoor prints that can last up to six months. Visitors to the Canon stand were also able to explore a range of graphics and retail décor elements which were created to support the promotion of coffee table book ‘Speed’, showing how brands can use print to create consistent and emotionally engaging experiences for their end customers, encouraging new and repeat business. From POS to encourage purchase, through to interior décor to enhance the customer’s brand experience, the ‘Speed’ campaign applications demonstrate print’s role as part of a multi-channel launch. Somesh Adukia B2B Sales and Marketing Director, Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) comments: “Large format graphics print service providers continue to look for ways to diversify, manage an evolving product mix, and handle growing volumes. With the launch of the Océ Arizona 1300 earlier this year and the introduction of the Océ Colorado 1650 at FESPA 2019, we’ve focused our innovation efforts on addressing these challenges and helping customers to manage and stimulate growth.” “At FESPA, customers were able to see how to achieve operational excellence with new digital print technology innovations, supported closely by our workflow partners. We also inspired visitors with the lucrative possibilities that come from taking existing applications and transforming them into something that offers even more value, with the potential to differentiate and propel their business forward.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media Contact: Canon Middle East Mai Youssef E. mai.youssef@canon-me.com Canon Central & North Africa (CCNA): Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2016 is a strategic step that aims to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the Africa continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA will ensure the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, it will manage sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. For more information, log on to: www.Canon-CNA.com Media filesDownload logo