Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Seven Egyptian startups have been selected to represent the country in the 2019 Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES) in The Hague, Netherlands, June 3-5. While in the Netherlands, representatives of the seven firms will have opportunities to network with over 1,000 other entrepreneurs and over 300 investors from around the world.  The annual GES conference brings together top entrepreneurs, investors, thought leaders, corporate partners, and policy makers. This year’s Global Entrepreneurship Summit will focus its activities on five critical areas: Agriculture/Food, Connectivity, Energy, Health, and Water.  At a May 20 press conference hosted by the American Chamber of Commerce, U.S. Charge d’Affaires Thomas Goldberger noted, “These seven Egyptian companies were selected because of their drive, vision, and readiness to meet the challenge of scaling up regionally and globally to maximize their impact. We look forward to these startups showcasing their accomplishments on the world-wide stage of GES.”  The following Egyptian startups were selected:  SWVL, an app that allows Egyptians to book fixed-route buses between neighborhoods for a fixed fare and without surge pricing. 	Elves, an artificial intelligence powered personal concierge app that can do everything from getting items delivered to your front door to booking flights or restaurant reservations. 	SmartCare, a startup that focuses on corporate health care insurance products. 	Breadfast, a food delivery services company that delivers fresh food overnight and to your doorstep. 	Al-Mouneer, Egypt’s first specialized diabetic eye care clinic that helps preserve the vision of Egyptians through specialized quality services and secure electronic health records. 	Chitosan, a company focusing on developing an organic, safe, and high quality supply of marine based chitin and chitosan, which are used in a variety of industries including pharmaceuticals to treat high cholesterol and obesity. 	Agrimatic Farms, a startup commercializing an innovative approach to farming not requiring soil. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of U.S. Embassy – Cairo.Media filesDownload logo