This article was supplied to CNBC Africa by Mastercard Across Africa, there has historically been a heavy reliance on cash, with around 95 percent of retail transactions taking place in cash. Global and local organisations are investing in innovative digital payment systems and new disruptive payments tools to displace cash, while delivering new levels of inclusion to the benefit of consumers, businesses and governments. One of the leading technology companies in this realm is Mastercard. We recently spoke with Gilberto Caldart, President of International for Mastercard, to help us unpack the key points about how cash is being displaced in Africa. While seemingly inexpensive, cash comes at a high cost
to governments, businesses and consumers, placing unnecessary strain on
economies. The printing, distribution and handling costs of cash alone place as
much as a 1.5 percent burden on national GDP. The impact is even greater if you
take into account the costs associated with fighting illegal activity, fraud,
corruption and the shadow economy – all of which are fueled by cash. From a consumer perspective, cash is inconvenient,
dangerous to carry and expensive. In South Africa for instance, cash costs
consumers R23 billion a year, with the costs disproportionately carried by
low-income earners. This remains true across several other African countries
where people often have to trade off the demands of an hourly job with the need
to travel long distances to access cash or stand in line to pay a bill. Many
people also face the danger of being robbed when they come home with their
wages. Cash also has several negative implications for
merchants and small businesses. Not only does it cost these businesses to
access, secure, transport and store cash, but it can also hamper business
growth if they do not accept electronic payments. For example, entrepreneurs
cannot access the credit or loans they need to grow their businesses without a
financial record or credit history. They can also lose out on revenue when
their customers don’t have enough cash to pay for goods. You can’t talk about cash without talking about
financial inclusion. What is the opportunity to expand financial inclusion in
Africa, and what are the broader socio-economic benefits of doing so? According to the Global Findex, 57 percent of people
in sub-Saharan Africa are financially excluded. Without access to formal
financial tools, these people remain locked out of many economic activities, have
extremely limited retail choices, cannot access credit and often pay more for
goods and services. While this statistic is much higher than the global
average (31 percent), good progress has been made over the last few years,
driven by several factors including supportive government policies and a new
generation of financial tools and services accessed by mobile phones. However, more still needs to be done if Africa is to
realise the full socio-economic benefits that financial inclusion can deliver
including greater income and social equality, an expanded middle class, and
more human fairness and dignity. At Mastercard, we believe that financial inclusion is
the cornerstone for inclusive growth. By providing access to financial tools
and helping people use those tools, we can break down economic barriers and
contribute to their upward mobility and a better quality of life. The result is
prosperity shared among all segments of society. Financial inclusion is part and parcel of our business
strategy and vision to create a world beyond cash. We bring our technologies
and infrastructure, our capital and creativity, and our ability to scale
solutions to support people’s journey from poverty to prosperity. But we can’t
do it alone. That is why we bring together an ecosystem of different players,
and partner with both the private and public sectors to make a sustainable
impact. For example, we partnered with the Ministry of Finance
and major Egyptian banks on a custom solution for the government to pay its employees
safely and efficiently. It is now one of the largest government payroll card
programmes in the world, with more than 4.6 million public sector employees
receiving their salaries electronically. Today, we’re working with the
government to build an interoperable mobile money platform linked to citizens’
national identification, enabling 54 million Egyptians to participate in the
formal economy. Through partnerships such as this, we are growing our
business while addressing some of Africa’s most pressing challenges. Our
approach is based on the fundamental conclusion that we do well by doing good –
that we can make money and make a difference at the same time. When we do this,
we create a sustainable system where everyone benefits — citizens, customers,
governments and businesses including Mastercard. The integration of purpose
into our business strategy helps us to attract top talent, grow our customer
base and create brand affinity with people, businesses and governments. About 10 years ago, we started to ramp up investments
on the continent with a laser focus on executing our global strategy of
creating a world beyond cash. As a technology company, we started to build out
payment infrastructure and create new ecosystems, while innovating locally to
benefit our customers. In order to create scale and make a broader impact, we
changed our business model from partnering with only a few of the largest banks
to working with a range of stakeholders, including governments, mobile network
operators, fintechs, technology companies, merchants and others. We also expanded our geographical footprint and
employee base significantly, combining local know-how with our global
expertise. As a result of these efforts, our cards are now issued in 58
countries and accepted in 60 countries across the Middle East and Africa
region. Our African business remains an increasingly important part of our
company’s emerging market growth strategy with volumes growing at double the
global rate. Turning cash into digital transactions is all about
designing relevant solutions that address the needs of people, which can vary
by geography, individual preference and community. We’ve spent significant time
and resources understanding their world, and how our technologies fit – or
don’t fit – into it. This has enabled us to build strategies that can be
scaled, while providing locally relevant solutions that actually get used and
impact lives. In 2015, we set up the Mastercard Lab for Financial
Inclusion in Nairobi with support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
It serves as an R&D hub to develop cost-effective solutions for people who
don’t have access to existing digital payments tools. One example is the
Mastercard Farmers Network, which is helping small farmers in Kenya, Uganda and
Tanzania to sell and accept payment for their produce via a mobile phone. By
connecting them directly to buyers, these farmers can get the best prices for
their produce without going through a middle man. Another example is our Mastercard QR digital payment
and acceptance solution, which enables people to use a mobile phone to pay
merchants by scanning a QR code. For merchants, the solution provides an
affordable way to accept digital payments at the point of sale — even where
traditional card payment infrastructure, or an electric grid, may not be
present. We have leveraged this technology across several African markets, and
integrated it into innovative business models like Pay-As-You-Go, which gives
people the ability to pay for the things they need as they use them. We
recently partnered with Angaza, a leading last-mile technology distributor, to
increase access for millions of people to affordable necessities, like solar
home systems and water pumps, by leveraging Mastercard QR technology. Small and medium businesses represent about 80 to 90
percent of the total businesses in Africa, contributing significantly to
employment and economic growth. Unfortunately, many of these businesses lack
the tools, knowledge and financial services that they need to grow their
businesses. We use our services, partnerships and technologies to
help small business owners manage their records, access market information,
build a financial footprint and use digital communications channels to receive
training and business advice. For example, we launched a first of-its-kind digital
lending initiative with Unilever to empower small and micro business owners in
Kenya. This partnership gives shopkeepers access to short-term, affordable
loans to purchase Unilever products so they can stock what they can sell, not
just what they may be able to afford on any given day. It also provides a
tailored education program that helps entrepreneurs gain the skills and
knowledge to grow their business and use the credit facility effectively.