Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Blockchain Technology is rapidly growing in different continents and many more people beginning to see the importance and relevance of cryptocurrency and blockchain technology in their different fields of life. Nations and companies are gradually adopting cryptocurrency in exchange for goods and services instead of fiat. However, the African continent seems to be lagging behind in the adoption of this upcoming technology resulting from the lack of political will to accept the risk of innovation (in Blockchain technology and cryptocurrency). This can further be perceived in the reluctance to adopt the use of cryptocurrency in day-to-day transactions.  About Coincola going into Africa Though based in Hong Kong, Coincola aims to provide trustworthy trading and exchange services to all its users all around the world with Africa being a key place of interest. Coincola believes that Blockchain technology will be essential to providing secure banking and payment services in the future and also that cryptocurrency will greatly improve the convenience of daily transactions and help to create a world that is financially borderless. Hence, our mission is to “connect everyone to this new digital asset economy. Features on CoinCola Coincola is an OTC cryptocurrency marketplace and exchange designed to offer the best cryptocurrency trading experience for users and also offer fast and secure trading services at competitive fees and exchange rates. In the OTC Marketplace, the trading platform allows people around the world to use their local FIAT currency to buy and sell Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), Bitcoin Cash (BCH), Litecoin (LTC), Dash (DASH) ，Tether (USDT) and Ripple (XRP). This is done on a person-to-person (P2P) basis. Users can post adverts for free and are only charged a trading fee of 0.7% of the traded amount once the transaction has been completed. In the exchange market, CoinCola offers Bitcoin (BTC) and Tether (USDT) as base currencies and supports crypto-to-crypto trading pairs with Ethereum (ETH), Bitcoin Cash (BCH) and Litecoin (LTC).  A trading fee of 0.2% is charged for an exchanged amount. However, there is a fixed withdrawal fee. The new feature which allows users to trade bitcoin with gift card was added recently to fulfill a highly desired request by African users. Users can now buy bitcoin in Nigeria (https://bit.ly/2Hy5PBO), Guana and everywhere else in Africa. They can buy bitcoin with gift cards (https://bit.ly/2YHdFPh), whether it is iTunes gift cards (https://bit.ly/2VYcn5H), Amazon gift cards (https://bit.ly/30GFzNk), Google gift cards (https://bit.ly/2JY0FAx), Steam gift cards and more. At Coincola, security is of utmost priority hence there are multiple layers of security including bank-level encryption, cold storage and SSL, ensuring that customers can trade with 100% confidence. CoinCola provides an intuitive and easy verification process by building trust and transparency in the Blockchain ecosystem and ensuring compliance using KYC/AML regulations. A mobile app is available to enable users to transact and trade comfortably while on the move. Why use CoinCola instead of Paxful? Compared to Paxful trading fee which is 5% for every traded amount, CoinCola charges a fee of 0.7%, now, a lot is saved. Trading of your cryptocurrencies can be done via our mobile app or web version however Paxful only has its web version. CoinCola supports BTC, ETH, LTC, BCH, XRP, USDT, and Dash but Paxful supports only BTC. Security and users' satisfaction are our priorities, therefore CoinCola provides a 24/7 full support and inquiry on their platform as well as on their Telegram channel. Conclusion We are going into an era where fiat will be one of the least currencies used. Blockchain technology and Cryptocurrency is gradually sipping into different sectors. At CoinCola, our customers are valuable to us, so whether you’re a knowledgeable cryptocurrency investor or a newbie, our platform makes crypto exchange very for you with few clicks and a dedicated support team to guide you whenever you need any form of assistance. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of CoinCola. Media Contact Name: Petra Thach Email: Petra.thach@coincola.com  CoinCola website: www.CoinCola.com CoinCola Android APP: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.newgo.coincola CoinCola iOS APP: https://www.coincola.com/app/download  CoinCola BTC bonus for new users: https://www.coincola.com/new-user-coupons CoinCola affiliate: https://www.coincola.com/affiliate Telegram: https://t.me/coincolainternational Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/CoinCola/ Twitter: https://twitter.com/CoinCola_Global Media filesDownload logo