Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Download logo Minister of State for the Diaspora and International Development, Ciarán Cannon T.D. has today welcomed the indication by ten local authorities across Ireland that they will either host or facilitate events and initiatives to mark Africa Day 2019. Supported by Irish Aid at the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Africa Day events will take place across the country in Cork, Galway, Dublin, Kildare, Laois, Limerick, Meath, Waterford and Wexford.  Commenting as details of the events are being finalised, Minister Cannon said: “I am delighted that local authorities throughout Ireland have responded so positively to our invitation to engage in helping communities to celebrate Africa Day 2019 by leading their own events and celebrations. “While this year we are taking a different approach to marking Africa Day, I am confident that communities will continue to enjoy multiple wonderful opportunities to learn more about how Ireland engages the countries and people of Africa in so many positive ways. “Whether your interest is in cultural activities, African film and music, or African cuisine, I encourage everyone to keep a close eye on our AfricaDay.ie website and Africa Day social media channels as details of these events are finalised over the coming weeks.”  Africa Day, which falls on 25th May annually, is the official day of the African Union and marks African unity.  In Ireland, Africa Day events highlight the scope and benefits of Ireland’s engagement with Africa by: Raising awareness of the official overseas aid programme managed by Irish Aid and its central focus on sub-Saharan Africa;  	Raising awareness of the United Nations Global Goals for Sustainable Development; 	Increasing public understanding of Africa by highlighting the diversity and potential of the continent; and 	Raising awareness of the potential for bilateral trade and investment linkages between Ireland and African countries. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade Ireland.