Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group.
Download logo Following the announcement by Sudan’s Public Prosecutor that he will charge former president Omar al-Bashir with the recent killing of protestors, Amnesty International’s Deputy Director for East Africa, the Horn and the Great Lakes, Seif Magango said:  “While this promises to be a first step towards holding al-Bashir accountable for his heinous crimes, the Sudan authorities must hand him over to the International Criminal Court to answer charges of crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide. Al-Bashir must face justice not only for recent crimes, but also for the crimes under international law he allegedly committed while he was in power.  “This announcement is all the more significant coming off the back of yet another night of bloody violence in Sudan during which at least four people were killed, and about 90 sustained gunshot injuries. The prosecutor must also investigate and charge everyone else responsible for the continued use of excessive lethal force against peaceful protestors.  “It should not be forgotten that the Sudan Transitional Military Council also bears responsibility for failing to protect peaceful protestors. They must hold to account any security officer who fired live bullets on the protestors camped out at the military headquarters and in other parts of the country.”  Background  At around midday on 13 May uniformed security officers were captured on a widely circulated social media video whipping protestors. The onslaught escalated from around 6pm when live shots were fired resulting in at least four deaths, one of whom was a military officer, and more than 90 people injured, according to the Central Committee of Sudan Doctors. The doctors said they had also treated 40 injuries arising from whipping and suffocation by tear gas. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Amnesty International.