Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Celebrating exactly a year to the day since the doors of NG_Hub opened in Lagos, and Facebook (www.Facebook.com) further cemented its ambitions to train users across Nigeria in digital skills, Facebook released an infographic highlighting key milestones over the past year.  Download NG_Hub Infographic: https://bit.ly/2HvEtfK Created as part of Facebook’s ongoing commitment and investment in growing the start-up ecosystem, and in partnership with CcHub, NG_Hub is a multi-faceted space which connects and bring together developers, start-up's and the wider community to collaborate, learn and exchange ideas. With a number of expert training and events with partners across Nigeria, undertaking in the hub and externally, the aim is to equip individuals and businesses to grow.  Some highlights over the past year includes:  Trained over 50,800 SMBs in digital skills across 20 states in Nigeria   	Delivered 526 events with over 11,490 attendees at NG_Hub, including programmes such as AR/VR meetups, FbStart Accelerator Programme, Facebook Community Leaders Community meetings (CLCs), Developer Circle gatherings etc. 	Directly supported businesses in 11 different industries from agriculture, through to catering, education and fashion  Speaking of its one year anniversary, Adaora Ikenze, Head of Public Policy, West and Central Africa, said: “I’m proud of the incredible impact that NG_Hub has had in its first year, and continues to have on the lives of young Nigerians. We remain committed in deepening our engagement, increasing skills development and supporting the next set of innovators, tech entrepreneurs, start-ups, in our collective bid to change the face of technology and grow the economy.”  Commenting on the partnership Bosun Tijani, Founder/CEO of CcHub, added: “We're glad about the tremendous impact Facebook's investment in NG_HUB has had in such a short period and the ecosystem is already seeing the fruits of this commitment. We're committed to working with Facebook to position NG_HUB as a major platform that drives smart application of technology innovation for economic prosperity across the region and beyond.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Facebook. Media Contact: Idea Engineers PR agency for Facebook in South Africa facebook@ideaengineers.co.za Media filesDownload logo