Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. The European Carrier Billing specialist expands its presence within the African market with a renowned local partner; The distribution agreement has been signed for six countries in the region.  Telecoming (www.Telecoming.com), the European technology company specialized in digital services monetization has closed an agreement with African company Maliyo Games, the pioneer mobile gaming company in Nigeria, to distribute its offer in the region. This agreement will allow Telecoming to enhance its presence across the African market. This agreement is part of Telecoming’s strategy to develop digital services with excellent user experience. According to Nicolas Gimenez, Telecoming’s Content Director “the combination of quality content and technology is key to offer services with a differential user experience. The African market offers endless opportunities for the mobile market. It is a region with excellent local content producers and where users demand innovative services to enjoy on mobile. The agreement with Maliyo games allows us to include a high-quality local offer in our state-of-the-art mobile services.” The games developed by Maliyo will be distributed among mobile users of 6 African countries. The bundle of Africa-themed games acquired by Telecoming has been designed to depict the everyday lives of Africans in general and Nigerians, in particular, with fun and engaging proposals to reach all ages audiences. Maliyo Games seeks to provide Africans with all kind of entertaining games built on experiential content with a strong focus on the African daily culture. Telecoming monetizes digital content in the region since 2015 in partnership with the leading mobile operators and the best local content producers. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Telecoming. Media Contact: Bárbara González barbara@bg10.es M. +34 603 578 654 About Telecoming: Specialized in mobile payments since 2008, Telecoming (www.Telecoming.com) develops technology to monetize digital services. The company works hand in hand with the main mobile operators to create solutions focused on improving the complete mobile customer journey: from the advertising to the payment. Finally, the company will continue leading the direct carrier billing market through innovation in new digital payment alternatives across the world. The London Stock Exchange has acknowledged the firm as one of the most Inspiring European Organizations. Moreover, it’s among Europe’s 500 fastest growing companies, according to Morningstar’s Inc. 5000 Ranking, 2018. More information: www.Telecoming.com Media filesDownload logo