Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group.
Download logo As a result of innovative and introduction of additional modern technology into social media, your darling international online medium and Nigeria’s Foremost Online Newspaper, LagosPostng.com have move a step further in rebranding, repackaging and reinvigorating.  The new Lagos Post Online is being handled and managed by versatile and experience journalists with decades of experience in journalism.  These set of media guru have worked in various notable dailies and traversed across the country with global touch and ideas.  The rebranding of Lagos Post Online became necessary so as to meet the demand of the readers in term of wider information gathering and dissemination of vital investigative information to the general populace.  The decision was also made in order to give its publics the best of journalism with content that is concise, short and simple and therefore exciting to readers as well as identifying with the economic realities which has affected the subscribing powers of the average citizen.  The introduction of repackage and rebranding Lagos Post Online is the outcome of deliberate and painstaking research aimed at retaining the loyalty of existing publics as well as drawing the interest of a new set of audience mainly young people unto online reading. The content of the medium are purely analytical and development oriented.  This will enable the medium to meet international standard and compete favourably with other medium globally.  One of the innovative ideas added to the international online medium, Lagos Post Online is a feature that will enable readers to read the original content published in English language in local language like Yoruba and others.  Commenting on the new development, the Managing Editor, LagosPostng.com, Damilare Bankole said this is a right step in a right direction, looking at the high number of people across the world who are online searching for good news content. Adding that Lagos Post Online is open to all business across the world and ready to partner with organisations for events, conferences and also with governments, institutions, Corporations, NGOs etc. across the across the world. In 2018, Lagos Post Online partnered with organisations like African Trades Investments Global Summit (ATIGS2018) in Washington DC, US, Commonwealth African Summit (CAS) in London and African Export Conference (Afriexport) in Lagos, Nigeria. So, we are still open for more partnership and business that will benefit both parties. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Lagos Post Online. Media Contact: Managing Editor LagosPostng.com Damilare Bankole +2348025837037  About Lagos Post Online: Lagos Post (www.LagosPostng.com) is an online publication that seeks to provide fair, unbiased, credible, balanced and useful information about Corporate Organisations, Governments and the General Public by breaking news in Business, Politics, Arts, Entertainment, Culture, and Sports in Nigeria, Africa and the World. As a global news portal, we continually stand for responsible journalism and sound media practice. Lagos Post Online was established in 2011 here in Lagos, Nigeria.