Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. The sleek, minimalist Essence design reflects the trend towards timeless elegance; GROHE (GROHE.com) completes its offer: bathtubs complement the concept of full bathroom solutions; Expansion of PerfectMatch: Essence harmonises with several faucet lines.  Reduced to its essentials and yet hard to beat in terms of aesthetics: lusciously curved, organic forms, slim and highly functional. Based on the reduction to pure elegance, a bathroom design line has been created that exposes the beauty of ceramics presented in its purest form – Essence. The washbasins and vessel basins as well as toilets and bidets feature natural, delicate lines. As a full bathroom solutions supplier, GROHE will also be offering bathtubs as part of the new Essence ceramic line starting in April, completing its product portfolio. Essence – Bathroom Design as If Made from One Piece Subtlety, clarity and lightness are qualities that differentiate Essence. The design line’s characteristics are its gentle organic forms that are based on their reduction to the essentials. Simple, elegant ceramics solutions reflect the natural beauty’s spirit of time. The new vanity washbasin models are a highlight of the Essence design series. With a rim thickness of a mere 17mm, they come with a particularly slim and smooth design. The overflow has been positioned opposite the faucet, complementing the harmonious look and design even in the smallest of details. The freely positionable wash bowls (available in oval or round designs starting in May 2019) feature a ceramic drain cap. These models come without an overflow. The toilets also fit seamlessly into the design series’ elegant look thanks to their particularly slim toilet seats. These are available with or without the SoftClose feature. Essence, in line with the GROHE PerfectMatch philosophy, harmonises perfectly with the GROHE Atrio, Essence, Plus and Lineare faucets and enables planners and installers to easily respond to individual customer requests without having to compromise when it comes to bathroom aesthetics. The Bathtub as a Visual Eye-Catcher and Luxury Add-On With the new GROHE Essence collection, for the first time, three versions of bathtubs are at the heart of the collection and complement the complete bathroom solution. Available for back to wall, build-in or freestanding installation, the Essence bathtubs are a design object in every bathroom. They too are characterized by the clear and sleek lines of the GROHE design. The tub models are made of high-quality titanium steel, which stores heat for an extended period of time, making bath time joys last even longer. In addition, the finish boasts a special coating that provides increased slip resistance and its Easy to Clean properties make it easier to clean the bathtub in everyday life. Deep Cleaning Hygiene Thanks to Innovative Features Essence series toilets come with rimless flushing technology, preventing bacteria from settling in angles and corners underneath the rim. The large flush requires 4.5 litres of water; the small flush is even more economical and only uses three litres of water. In addition, the Quick Release feature makes it easy to remove the toilet seat with just one hand. Depending on the model, the toilet seat is complemented by the comfortable SoftClose technology. Thanks to GROHE PureGuard, Essence features a strong and durable glossy finish. Special ions with antibacterial properties prevent bacterial growth and ensure a clean and germ-free ceramic surface. Deposits such as limescale and dirt can be easily removed. GROHE Completes Range of Ceramics Designing your individual bathroom is now even easier with the GROHE collections. Essence complements the existing GROHE Bau, GROHE Cube and GROHE Euro ceramic lines. The four design lines, each having their own distinctive character, meet everyone’s taste: whether it’s the natural elegance of Essence, the geometric minimalism of Cube, the flowing lines of Euro or the universal look of Bau. Another plus: Each of the GROHE bathroom ceramic products harmonises perfectly with the most popular GROHE faucet lines. GROHE’s recommended combinations not only make it easier to create a harmonious design in your own bathroom, they also offer the best possible water experience for the consumer, as faucet and ceramic perfectly match in form and function preventing unwanted water splashes when handwashing. For more information, please visit GROHE.com. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of GROHE. Follow us on our social media channels: Facebook: https://bit.ly/2S9Pohb Twitter: https://bit.ly/25UhEqW Instagram: https://bit.ly/2W6b54R LinkedIn: https://bit.ly/2RFYdUF YouTube: https://bit.ly/2S0xXn4  About GROHE: GROHE (GROHE.com)  is a leading global brand for complete bathroom solutions and kitchen fittings and has a total of over 6,000 employees, 2,400 of which are based in Germany. GROHE has been part of the LIXIL Group Corporation since 2014. As an international brand, GROHE pursues the brand values of technology, quality, design and sustainability, seeking to offer the “Pure Freude an Wasser”. GROHE has been developing new product categories since its inception. This includes the GROHE Blue and Red water systems and the recently-introduced GROHE Sense water security system, which is an innovative component in the growth market of smart home technology. Innovation, design and development are closely aligned with one another and are enshrined in the German site as an integrated process. As a result, GROHE products carry the seal of quality “Made in Germany”. In the past ten years alone, more than 300 design and innovation awards as well as several top rankings at the German Sustainability Award have confirmed GROHE's success. GROHE was the first in its industry to win the German government’s CSR prize and was also featured in the renowned Fortune® magazine’s ranking of Top 50 that are “Changing the World”.  About LIXIL: LIXIL (www.LIXIL.com) makes pioneering water and housing products that solve every day, real-life challenges, making better homes a reality for everyone, everywhere. Drawing on our Japanese heritage, we create world-leading technology and innovate to make high quality products that transform homes. But the LIXIL difference is how we do this; through meaningful design, an entrepreneurial spirit, a dedication to improving accessibility for all and responsible business growth. Our approach comes to life through industry leading brands, including INAX, GROHE, American Standard and TOSTEM. Over 70,000 colleagues operating in more than 150 countries are proud to make products that touch the lives of more than a billion people every day. Learn more at www.LIXIL.com Media filesDownload logo