Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. APO Group (www.APO-opa.com), the leading Pan-African communications consultancy and press release distribution service in Africa and the Middle East, have shortlisted three journalists to win the inaugural APO Group African Women in Media Award which recognises, celebrates and empowers African women journalists who support female entrepreneurship in Africa. The award was open to African women journalists whose stories were broadcast or published between 1st January and 15th September 2019. The stories are judged on content, writing, analysis, creativity, human interest and community impact.  The 2019 APO Group African Women in Media Award finalists are: Mrs Aneta Felix (@AnetaFelix) – Nigeria “Female Entrepreneurs lead Beverage”: http://bit.ly/FinalistA Mrs Nila Yasmin (@nila_yasz) – Uganda “Aweko Faith Is Turning Uganda’s Waste Into Wealth”: http://bit.ly/FinalistB Mrs Lilian Museka (@museka123) – Kenya “Women’s dignity restored through sanitary towel dispensers”: http://bit.ly/FinalistC  The winning African female journalist will be bestowed with a USD 2,500 cash prize, an all-expenses paid trip to a prestigious International Women’s Forum, and online courses from one of the most respected international universities.  The winner will be announced at the 5th Africa Women Innovation and Entrepreneurship Forum (AWIEF) (www.AWIEForum.org) hosted at the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) on 29-30 October 2019.  AWIEF is a prestigious annual event is a platform that sees global thought leaders, industry experts, policymakers, academics, development organisations and investors gather to dialogue, connect, network, share, collaborate and transact in a combined effort to boost Africa’s entrepreneurship ecosystem for women.  Lionel Reina, CEO of APO Group said, “We are extremely excited for the opportunity to highlight the work of African female journalists sharing the stories of women entrepreneurs in Africa. The APO Group African Women in Media Award is part of our commitment to supporting the development of journalism on the continent. We are delighted to present this award at AWIEF in Cape Town as we celebrate women in journalism and entrepreneurship.”    For more information go to: https://bit.ly/33vQLO0 Follow @APO_Source (bit.ly/2o43gQC) and #APOMediaAward on Twitter.­­ Distributed by APO Group on behalf of APO Group. Media Contact:  Caroline Guilhaume  APO Group  Head of Media Relations  Email: gcaroline@apo-opa.org    Phone: +41 432 152 100  About APO Group:  Founded in 2007, APO Group (www.APO-opa.com) is the leading Pan-African communications consultancy and press release distribution service in Africa and the Middle East. We assist private and public organizations in sharpening their reputation and increasing their brand equity in target countries. As trusted partner, our role is to leverage the power of media and build bespoke strategies that enable organizations to produce a real and measurable impact in Africa and the Middle East and outside the regional frontiers. The trust and recognition that have been granted to APO Group by global and multinational companies, governments and NGOs inspires us to continuously enhance our value proposition within Africa and the Middle East to better cater to our clients’ needs. Among our prestigious clients: Facebook, Dangote Group, GE, Uber, Microsoft, Nokia, Mara Group, PwC, DHL, Marriott Group, Sage, Ecobank, Iflix, Jumia, Samsung, Total, Merck, Société Générale, L'Oréal, Oracle, Philips, Barclays, MoneyGram, Ernst & Young, Orange …  Headquarters: Lausanne, Switzerland | Offices in Senegal, Dubai and Hong Kong  For further information, please visit our website: www.APO-opa.com  About AWIEF:  AWIEF (www.AWIEForum.org) is a pan-African women’s economic empowerment organisation that promotes and supports female innovation, technology and entrepreneurship across Africa through a portfolio of high impact programmes. AWIEF’s mission is to foster the economic inclusion, advancement and empowerment of women in Africa through entrepreneurship support and development. AWIEF’s programmes and activities include accelerators, capacity-building and training, networking and mentorship, AWIEF Awards, AWIEF Digital Hub, and building the AWIEF community of African women entrepreneurs. The year-round activities culminate in convening and hosting the popular and widely attended annual international and multi-stakeholder AWIEF conference, exhibition and awards event, currently in its fifth edition. Website: www.AWIEForum.org.  Media filesDownload logo