By Cobus De Hart – Chief Economist West and North Africa, NKC African Economics After trending lower for three consecutive months, headline inflation increased by a larger-than-anticipated margin in September. The
consumer price index (CPI) rose by 11.2% y-o-y last month compared to an 11.0%
y-o-y rise in August. While fairly broad-based, upward pressure stemmed
primarily from the food price channel, with the reading on the sub-index up by
30 bps to 13.5% in September. So-called core inflation (all items less farm
produce) also trended higher, rising from 8.7% to 8.9%. Nigeria
decided to shut its border with Benin in late August, reportedly to clamp down
on smuggling. According to Reuters, this strategy has now been elevated to a
whole new level. On
October 15, the news agency quoted Hameed Ali, comptroller-general of the
Nigeria Customs Service, as stating: “All goods for now are banned from being
exported or imported through our land borders and that is to ensure we have
total control over what comes in.” Reporters
at the news conference in Abuja understood Mr Ali’s comments in the context of
stating that legal trade across land borders will also be stopped, at least
temporarily or until authorities come up with a plan on “how best the goods can
be handled when we eventually get to the point where this operation will relax
for the influx of goods”. While
not explicitly mentioned, certain points are reportedly equipped with special
scanners where goods will still be allowed to cross the border. The
closure of the land borders will have a significant impact on both the monetary
and real sides of the economy. The latest inflation print, with upward price
pressures fairly broad-based but still disproportionally stemming from higher
food prices, may already be an indication of the effect of the partial border
closures announced in August. Again,
as has been the case with Nigeria on numerous occasions over recent years, the
appropriateness of the latest policy is highly debatable. One
can certainly see the merit of the case being made in favour of formalising
trade and ensuring the necessary rules and costs are abided by; however,
outright banning of all land-based trade seems extreme. The
real issue arguably reflects the ineffectiveness of border controls more than
the incentive for people to smuggle goods, with the latter partially stemming
from the domestic opportunity arising as a result of market inefficiencies and
a lack of capacity and competitiveness. Regardless,
the land-border closure will now add significant upward pressure on inflation
in the coming months as food items in particular will be in shorter supply.
Exporters of certain goods will also be affected. The extent of the impact will
partly depend on the duration of the land-border closure and whether traders
can find alternative routes. Smugglers will likely be more capable of finding these alternatives, with the real burden then falling on the law-abiding poor.