Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. At the Russia-Africa Summit and Economy Forum 2019 (Oct. 23-24, Sochi, Russian Federation) Dmitry Komissarov, Member of the board of Russian Software Products Association “Russian Software” and CEO of New Cloud Technologies (NCloudTech.com) announced the start of deliveries of MyOffice® (MyOffice.ru) solutions to the Republic of Burundi, with the integration of the solution to be carried out by the Burundian IT company INGO Tech s.a.r.l.  As a part of the state strategy for cooperative trade and economic development between Russia and African countries, Russian IT companies have started working with Africa. Initiated by the Presidents of Russia and Egypt, the Summit brought together more than 50 Heads of State and Government of the African continent. “We carefully selected from the available solutions on the worldwide market. As a result, we made the decision to acquire 300 licenses of the New Cloud Technologies office suite MyOffice®, which is more than capable of meeting our needs. This is a modern, functional product with a high level of security, which allows deployment from a protected, private, cloud infrastructure for documents and e-mail, integrating with the existing government information systems”, said Willy Nyamitwe, Senior Advisor to the President of the Republic of Burundi. According to the agreement, the Government of Burundi is buying 300 MyOffice® Professional licenses from New Cloud Technologies and creating a private cloud infrastructure for the collaborative workflow with documents inside the state information system. For the Russian software developer this international contract was the first in its history, it is now in the implementation stage. “According to independent analytical agencies, the number of personal computers in Africa will exceed 200 million by 2025 year. The Government of the Republic of Burundi is following worldwide digitalization trends and has become the first African country to take a step towards implementing secure office software. The contract not only confirms the high interest in the Russian MyOffice® product on the international market, but also lays the foundation for cooperation on educational initiatives. I am sure that the positive experience of cooperation with Burundi and the further growth of the economies of the countries of the African region will lead to an increase in the share of the Russian software market in the world”, says Dmitry Komissarov, CEO of New Cloud Technologies. Due to the country's dynamic development and the need for switching to electronic workflows, the Presidential Administration together with the government of the Republic of Burundi were looking for a solution that would provide three key functional criteria: • collaboration • secured cloud infrastructure and data control • mobility and cross-platform integration.  The solution integration will take a few months. African partners have explored the product functionality and made advanced testing. In addition to the high security standards of the software, the representatives of the Presidential Administration of Burundi appreciated the convenience of collaborative functionality in the cloud. They also assessed the localized MyOffice® suite interface. The software is also translated into several foreign languages, including French, English and Spanish. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of MyOffice. Media Contact: Lina Udovenko Email: lina.udovenko@myoffice.team About New Cloud Technologies: New Cloud Technologies (NCloudTech.com) is a Russian developer of office suite for corporate communications and collaboration. Since 2013 the company has been creating software products and cloud solutions under the MyOffice® brand. The MyOffice® suite includes several applications: Documents, Text, Table, Presentation, Mail, Calendar, Contacts and Logos messenger. New Cloud Technologies is a socially-oriented company that supports and develops State educational initiatives. MyOffice software products are being used in the education system of the Russian Federation, improving computer literacy and teach highly qualified specialists. A special version of the application for educational institutions is distributed under special conditions: schools receive the product for free, universities — with up to 93% discount. The company's customers are some of the largest enterprises and government agencies: by 2019 contracts were agreed with the Administration of Russian Federation, the Ministry of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media of Russian Federation, Russian Post, Aeroflot, Russian National Guard, Russian Railways and many others. 2019 saw additions the board, foremostly the leading security software solutions provider, Kaspersky, who became shareholders. Media filesDownload logo