Content supplied by Siemens Although
the notion of shared value, CSI and businesses giving back to the communities
in which they operate is nothing new, it is becoming more imperative for
businesses to integrate the well-being of society into their core objectives.
In many instances, contributing to society is a secondary objective for
businesses and yet without a healthy flourishing society, we cannot be
successful in business. Currently
South Africa faces many challenges and whilst government has outlined key
priorities in the 2030 National Development Plan, businesses need to both align
and contribute to addressing these challenges. Some of the main issues we face
include unemployment, employment equity and lack of transformation, and
environmental sustainability and these areas should be translated into what we
do as businesses. We should be aligning ourselves to the agenda of government
and we should essentially start reporting on what, we as businesses, are doing
to uplift South Africa. For
the past five years Siemens has taken this approach and translated it into a
Business to Society approach whereby we take the development of the country and
embed it into our business model. We have made an effort to report on how we
have added value to society and how we contribute to the country, by showcasing
results. In
doing so we have seen great results in creating more than 1500 jobs, growing
our female work force to be 28,6% of the company, maintaining a B-BBEE level 2
status, and enabling our customers to lower their CO2 emission. However, over
the past few years we have taken key learnings in terms of contributing to society. When businesses aim to put
society at the centre of what they do, it is imperative to firstly understand
societal needs and secondly be able to link this back to your business offering.
This is the difference between development and pure philanthropy. For example,
any business should be able to manage skills development, however it will need
to consider which skills lead to employment and fills the skills gap in South
Africa. It is true that business
should continue to upskill their own employees and manage their own
sustainability in terms of both the environment as well as the economic health
of the company. Having said that, for a business to have a wider impact on
society, businesses also need to enable their suppliers through enterprise and
supplier training and development, as well as provide their customers with
solutions to impact society. If we are not enabling other businesses through
the work we do as companies, then we are missing opportunities for these
businesses to grow and in turn contribute to the growth of the country. It is critical to not only set
goals against your efforts to uplift society, but also to measure the outcome
and report on it to track year-on-year improvements and evaluate your
programmes to ensure they remain both relevant and effective. This should be
done on a yearly basis in alignment with the social, economic and political
climate of the country with a consistent focus on the needs of the community. As a global business, we take
key learnings from our other operations, however everything we do is localised
for impact. Businesses can no longer afford not
to contribute to society if we don’t uplift the communities in which we
operate, our future in South Africa will also be affected. By building the
country in line with both its potential and challenges, we are building a
destination attractive for investment, growth and development.