Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. TMT Finance (https://www.TMTFinance.com) Africa 2019, returns to London on November 28 2019 with a renewed agenda, investing in the next phase of digital infrastructure and the leadership strategies for growth and cross-border investments in Africa.  With over 70 TMT C-Level key financial decision makers announced to speak from across telecoms, infrastructure, smart cities and fintech, sessions from MTN, Orange, Csquared, Seacom, Standard Bank, Vodacom, Africa Data Centres and Dark Fibre Africa make TMT Finance Africa 2019 (https://bit.ly/32GpmrJ), the most influential event to discuss the future of mergers and acquisitions within TMT in Africa.  The increasing pressure on telcos to diversify revenue streams is expected to be one of the key driving factors for M&A transactions in Africa, according to Mohamed Dabbour, EVP, Head of Africa at Millicom. “As organic growth can be slower, we’ll see telcos acquiring companies in other sectors such as fintech and digital services and technologies. The fintech industry remains very fragmented and keeps on attracting a large number of companies in Africa.”  Telecom infrastructure is another sector that has enjoyed a tremendous amount of activity over the past few years and it is expected to continue to do so due to the increasing demand for data. “I believe we will continue to see infrastructure consolidation, as FTTH and FTTB gather more momentum in many African markets where fibre infrastructure is still developing, says Byron Clatterbuck, CEO of South African submarine cable and fibre company SEACOM. Datacentres, both large and small, will continue to attract investment.”  A few select markets are underpinning the main bulk of transactions and investment activity across the region. South Africa, Nigeria and Kenya are among the most active, while Ethiopia is opening its telecom market and is expecting new investors to target the country. Stephane Duproz, CEO of Africa Data Centres stated, “Research suggests that African private equity activity has remained stable over the past seven years, which indicates that investors are confident in the long-term feasibility of the continent.”  TMT Finance Africa 2019 is limited to 350 attendees and will feature 75 speakers across 24 sessions. Panels include;  Future Africa Telco Panel – Leadership strategies for regional growth Sandile Ntsele, CFO; MTN SA Diego Gutierrez, COO; International Business, Vodacom Elisabeth Medou Badang, SVP Africa; Orange MEA Mohamed Dabbour, EVP, CEO Africa; Millicom  Investing in next generation broadband and wireless infrastructure Lanre Kolade, CEO, Csquared Byron Clatterbuck, CEO, Seacom Antonio Nunes, CEO, Angola Cables Marco De Assis, CEO, Group Vivendi Africa  The Future TowerCo – The Next Phase of Digital Infrastructure Investment Nathan Foster, CEO; Atlas Tower Morenikeji Aniye, CEO; Hotspot Network Limited Wole Abu, CEO; Pan African Towers Keith Boyd, SVP, CCO – Africa; American Tower Corporation Alexander Leigh, Group CCO; Helios Towers  For more information about TMT Finance World including the full programme and tickets please visit TMTFinance.com/world-congress/africa or contact enquiries@tmtfinance.com for speaker and sponsor opportunities.  Read our full interview with to Mohamed Dabbour, Millicom. Byron Clatterbuck, CEO, Seacom and Stephane Duproz, CEO of Africa Data Centres by visiting TMTFinance.com/world-congress/africa/press Distributed by APO Group on behalf of TMT Finance. Media Contact: Katrina Hopewell m: 07838255420 e: katrina@tmtfinance.com About TMT Finance: TMT Finance (https://www.TMTFinance.com) was first launched in the UK in 2009 to connect and inform senior executives pursuing M&A, investment, financing and advisory opportunities in the telecom, media and tech sector globally. Since then, TMT Finance has established 5 weekly news titles with a series of leading annual executive only events gathering financial-decision makers in the US Europe, Asia and Africa.  For more information on TMT Finance visit www.TMTfinance.com/events and follow on Twitter(https://bit.ly/2N820oz) and LinkedIn (https://bit.ly/2JehENY)  Media filesDownload logo