Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Telecoming will also submit its female-oriented proposal to inspire and empower African women, launched in collaboration with local influencers;Telecoming will look for partners to enhance its presence across the African market in which it operates since 2015 Telecoming (https://www.Telecoming.com/), the European technology company specialized in digital services monetization, witll attend AfricaCom 2019 from 12 to 14 of November at CTICC in Cape Town (stand D1A).  Within its international strategy, since 2015, the firm develops the most outstanding mobile entertainment services for Africa in partnership with premium and local content producers.  During the AfricaCom event, the company will present its offer of digital entertainment as the new exclusive Real Madrid partner to distribute digital contents through mobile operators in Africa. Telecoming will also submit its female-oriented proposals to inspire and empower African women, launched in collaboration with local influencers.  The company has a strong commitment to the local market and is already offering edutainment services for kids with a strong focus on African daily culture, like Bino & Fino or Ubongo’s production. Telecoming is an official partner of Stats Perform (digital leader in global sports media) to distribute sports information like football news or the Cricket World Cup 2019 in South Africa.  AfricaCom is the largest meeting point in Africa for tech, telco and digital transformation leaders where 15,000 attendees are expected to meet.  According to Mohamed Benhamadi, Telecoming’s Operations Director for Africa, “the African market presents endless opportunities for the mobile market, where users demand innovative services and a differential user experience. Moreover, there we identify excellent local partners to deliver high-value contents, so we cannot miss an event such as AfricaCom to display our offer and enhance Telecoming’s presence in the region”.  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Telecoming. Media Contact:  Bárbara González barbara@bg10.es  M. +34 603 578 654 About Telecoming: Specialized in mobile payments since 2008, Telecoming (https://www.Telecoming.com/) develops technology to monetize digital services. The company works hand in hand with the main mobile operators to create solutions focused on improving the complete mobile customer journey: from the advertising to the payment. Finally, the company will continue leading the direct carrier billing market through innovation in new digital payment alternatives across the world. The firm has been acknowledged by the London Stock Exchange as one of the most Inspiring European Organizations. Moreover, it’s among Europe’s 500 fastest-growing companies, according to Morningstar’s Inc. 5000 Ranking, 2018.   Media filesDownload logo