By Kopano Gumbi, reporter at CNBC Africa In his inaugural medium-term budget policy statement, Minister of Finance Tito Mboweni had the difficult task of having to explain to South Africans and the broader investment community how each one of the levers– save, spend and grow– would be pulled, and in what ratio, to arrest fiscal wastage, reignite economic growth, stave off a sovereign downgrade and improve the lives of 56 million South Africans. READ:SA #MTBPS2019: Finance Minister Tito Mboweni’s full speech The South African economy has struggled to recover after over a decade of low and jobless growth. The downward spiral, partly initiated by the global financial crisis, was exacerbated by a failure to implement structural reforms, policy uncertainty and wide spread looting. GDP growth since 2010 has averaged at 1.8 percent. Lagging far behind continental peers of similar market sizes and economic activity. South Africa’s debt-to-GDP ratio is currently at an unsustainably high, 56.7 percent, with outlooks estimating up to 80 percent in the next decade, if nothing changes. READ:#MTBPS2019: Low growth, high spend continues to plague SA economy, but SAA, Eskom get more funds “Our
problem is that we spend more than we earn. It is as simple as that,” said the
minister, while delivering his speech in parliament. And while he tried to
assure the public that this bad habit would soon be kicked, the government
finds itself in the not so simple situation of needing to save, spend and grow
the economy. GDP growth has been revised down for the year
to 0.5 percent. In February this year growth was forecast at 1.5 percent but
was later revised down to 0.6 percent. Unemployment is at the highest it has
been in over 10 years, currently at 29.1 percent. In this MTBPS, the government
acknowledges that there is little chance that the 9.4 million unemployed adults
will find a job. Tax revenue collection continued to be constrained.
The government expects a collection shortfall of R53 billion this year and R84
billion next year. The majority of tax, 38 percent, is collected from personal income
taxes, about a quarter from company taxes and another 23 percent from Value Added Tax and sundries. “We
must also wean state-owned companies off the national budget. They must learn
to stand on their own feet,” said Mboweni during his speech. Currently this is
easier said than done. The state has committed to spend an additional R60
billion this year to make sure delinquent state-owned entities remain going
concerns. Power
utility Eskom, is seen as the biggest risk to the South African economy and
will receive an extra R26 billion in this financial year.  This is in addition to the R23 billion it
received at the beginning of the year. Smaller state-owned entities will
receive R11 billion and R450 million will be given to support an increase in
student housing. On top of that, the National Prosecuting Authority will receive
R1.3 billion to continue its work, including prosecuting state capture crimes.
And the South Africa Revenue Services will receive R1 billion over two years. Another state-owned entity which has failed to
take off is struggling airline South African Airways and its subsidiary SA
Express. The companies are currently discussing the possibility of a merger as
well as equity buyouts from the private sector. “We have essentially chosen to subsidise the
middle class and wealthy flying around the country and other parts of the
world,” said Mboweni, “rather than the ordinary workers who sit in old trains
from the townships every day, often getting stuck and being late for work.” The
minister has been clear in that he doesn’t see the value of having a state-controlled
airline, and yet the national carrier will receive R5.5 billion in a bailout
this year. Savings efforts have been muted, the minister says
that efforts to reduce spend and save have not materialised. Stricter measures
around cabinet and provincial executive salaries have been proposed, as well as
the controversial e-Toll system remaining as an additional revenue collection
stream. Whether
the minister’s stern words will be enough to stave off a sovereign downgrade,
remains to be seen.  Moody’s is the last
of the international ratings agencies to keep South Africa at investment grade.
They are expected to release a note on our ratings on November 1, 2019. “We
shall return to this House next February with the nation’s beloved Aloe Ferox
plant having flourished and show a government at work,” said the minister in
closing.