30 ministries are taking part this
year, with over 20 presenting. This is the best chance to get insider knowledge
on key opportunities, legislation changes, bidding rounds and more – direct
from the companies and government intimately involved in leading them. Here are some highlights of the
National Roadshows and Bidding Rounds happening this year at Africa Oil Week: Sierra
Leone Sierra Leone will be announcing
details of a new bidding round at Africa Oil Week 2019. Led by the Minister of Mineral
Resources Hon. Foday Rado Yokie and Timothy Kabba, Director General of the
Petroleum Commission of Sierra Leone, and supported by Jonathan Copus, CEO of
Getech, the nation’s delegation will be announcing the opening of a fresh round
of exploration rights. Only eight wells have been drilled
there since 1982, with the latest coming from Lukoil in 2013, following three
wells drilled by Anadarko (now Occidental) in 2009, 2010 and 2012. Cameroon The world of African oil & gas
legislation requires closer scrutiny as new changes emerge. Cameroon is one
nation that has recently made changes to its Petroleum Code. Jean-Jacques Koum, Advisor for SNH
will present on how these changes will provide greater scope for operators,
investors and the wider finance community to find new ground in Cameroon. One of the key changes is tax
holiday for oil and condensate development, and a further seven years for gas
development. What’s more, production sharing contracts (PSCs), can be modified
to allow companies to recuperate “exploration expenses” from production based
on Cameroonian on or offshore acreages. Somalia The Horn of Africa is open for
business. Somalia’s Petroleum Law and Revenue Sharing Agreement entered force
in May 2019. The nation also unveiled its inaugural offshore licensing round. Keynote speaker Hon. Abdirashid
Mohamed Ahmed, Somali Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, will lay out
the future of Somali oil & gas for an international audience of financiers
and operators this November. “This year is a landmark year in the
development of Somalia’s natural resources,” Minister Ahmed said. “The Ministry
has worked successfully with the federal member states to create and equitable
and transparent framework to develop natural resources for the greater good of
Somalia.” Nigeria No continental hydrocarbons summit
would be complete without representatives from Africa’s largest oil producer.
Hon. Timipre Marlin Sylva and Melee Kolo Kyari, GMD, NNPC will be leading the
Nigerian delegation, and Bala Wunti, Group General Manager, Corporate Planning
and Strategy, NNPC, is on hand to give the latest updates and opportunities
from Nigeria. Nigeria continues to attract
significant international attention. According to the NNPC, China is emerging
as one of its key partners. Data from the NOC reveals that Chinese investments
in Nigeria’s oil sector have reached $16bn. Even so, the nation is aiming at 70%
indigenous participation in oil & gas projects by 2027, so there’s a lot of
interest in how Nigeria’s hydrocarbons sector will develop in the coming years. Mozambique Mozambique represents 23% of all
future African capEx, making it the second largest recipient of investment
anywhere in the continent going forward. In particular, natural gas projects
are set to receive a major boost – up to a potential $50bn in capital
expenditure. Following on the from the success of
significant large-scale projects like Anadarko’s $20bn Mozambique LNG project,
players from across the globe are turning towards Mozambique with great
interest. A proposed $5bn EXIM bank loan to fuel further development is only
making the nation more attractive for investors. Forming part of the Africa Oil Week
2019 National Roadshow programme is a look at Mozambique and the promise it
holds for international players. Two of the key players helping
transform Mozambique’s oil & gas industry into something truly world class
are speaking at Africa Oil Week this year. Chairman of the INP, the National
Petroleum Institute, Carlos Zacharias will be there to discuss his country’s
ongoing development, alongside NOC ENH’s CEO Omar Mithá. 23
nations presenting at Africa Oil Week This is just a handful of the
African countries showcasing their latest news, investment opportunities, and
more at the continent’s leading summit. Be sure to check out the Prospect Forum, which features additional governmental presentations, as well as our Ministerial Panels on the Tuesday and Wednesday on our Main Plenary Stage. To find out more, see the full Africa Oil Week agenda. Content provided by Africa Oil Week