By Dr. Jean-Marie Okwo-Bele is the Former Director, Department of Immunization, Vaccines and Biologicals at the World Health Organization and Dr. Richard Mihigo is the Immunization and Vaccines Development Program Coordinator at the World Health Organization Regional Office for Africa. In the current outbreak of Ebola in the Democratic
Republic of Congo a promising new investigational vaccine is proven pivotal in
controlling this much-feared
and often fatal disease. The innovative solution was
first tested in the West Africa Ebola outbreak in complementarity with other interventions. Such findings highlight the stark improvement and
expansion that has occurred to African immunization services in the last 40
years. There is however, still need for more robust policies for immunization,
featuring sustainable programs funded on a country-by-country basis. Our global
imperative is to bridge the vaccination gap prevalent around the world, our
focus is, however, on Africa. The Addis Declaration on Immunization of 2016 – was an
important stepping-stone towards our end. It brought together all 54 African
countries to recognize the need to accelerate progress on the goals of the Global
Vaccine Action Plan for the
2011-2020 Decade. This Declaration represents a drive toward meeting a
key UN Sustainable Development Goal, namely universal health coverage. Ongoing
investment in vaccine research and development – and in large-scale
immunization programs – is essential for preserving individual health and
population security. Only through high-level leadership, increased
resources and a continent-wide commitment can we expect to achieve the
ambitious immunization goals we have set out for ourselves. How to turn this crusade into reality? How best to
leverage our existing immunization infrastructure and establish long-term
public-private partnerships. We hereby propose the following steps, all
potentially transformative, to maintain our hard-earned momentum. First, we should anchor immunization within primary
healthcare. Vaccines should be regarded as key interventions, whether for pneumonia, diarrhea, cholera or typhoid. Immunization can also serve as
a platform for treating neglected tropical diseases such as malaria and
helminthiasis. Creating integrated management protocols would drive efficiency
system-wide. It would represent a long-overdue shift from a disease-specific
approach and help bring about universal healthcare.[1] Next, we should guarantee the funding required for immunization. This is an absolute imperative.
Preferably funds would come from national governments and respective partners,
rather than from individual households making out-of-pocket payments. Already,
for example, eight countries in the region[2],
fully finance their own immunization activities. Every country should develop
its own immunization financing plan, whether through taxes, special levies,
loans, insurance premiums, or some combination thereof. Ultimately, the source
of funding is vastly less important than sustaining it.[3] Demand for vaccination needs to be created
too. Key organizations involved should mount concerted national efforts to
educate communities to appreciate and seek out immunization. So recommended the
2017 Assessment Report of the Global Vaccine Action Plan. It called for “ongoing
community engagement and trust-building, active hesitancy prevention, regular
national assessment of vaccine concerns, and crisis response planning.”[4].
It is vital to remember the warning from the World Health Organization about vaccine
hesitancy – the reluctance or refusal to vaccinate despite the availability of
vaccines – namely, that it’s a threat to global public health[5]. Bridging the gap in access to vaccines between
locations and populations is essential as well. Data can help target those most
in need. Integrated strategies and sustained funding should minimize the
inequalities in immunization service delivery — disparities in access,
coverage and geographic diversity, as well as cultural and economic bias – so
widespread over the last two decades. Programs should be tailored for given
communities – for example, by collaborating with managers to plan health
services around extreme weather events or humanitarian crises. Likewise, it is vital to strengthen the
micro-planning processes for local officials and communities in order to
maximize access to immunization services and ensure future success. Precisely how
our services are delivered – and how well – will matter more than ever. Case in
point:  As in Rwanda and Tanzania, community
health workers are deployed to connect target populations with the services
needed and prevent individuals from being left behind. Throughout all these steps, we
must keep innovating, collaborating and learning from each other. In the
process, we should focus support on those most responsible for delivering
immunization services in Africa. Make no mistake: business-as-usual approaches
will no longer drive the improvements so desperately needed. Lastly, technology and digital
communications will have to be harnessed to enhance services, accuracy and
accountability. At the moment, mobile telecommunications in Africa hold promise
but remain desperately underused. Bringing in new technology – such as Geographic Information Systems – can limit over-reporting, identify new
settlements and improve vaccine storage facilities, among numerous
other advantages. These
concrete, forward-looking actions should guide our agenda to reimagine – and in
so doing, reform — immunization policy in Africa over the next 10 years. Only
then can we do the job we are supposed to do and keep preventing, controlling
and even eliminating diseases. Only then will we fulfill our humanitarian
purpose to raise immunization rates, protect communities and save the lives of
children and other vulnerable populations across the continent. [1] World Health
Organization. Working Together: an integration resource guide for immunization
services throughout the life course. WHO 2018. https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/handle/10665/276546/9789241514736-eng.pdf?ua=1 [2] Algeria, Angola,
Botswana, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mauritius, Namibia, and South Africa [3] Saxenian H, et al.
Overcoming challenges to sustainable immunization financing: early experiences
from GAVI graduating countries. Health Policy and Planning (2015); 30(2):
197–205, https://academic.oup.com/heapol/article/30/2/197/622945 [4]
Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization. Geneva: World Health
Organization; 2017. License: CC BYNC-SA 3.0 IGO. [5] World Health
Organization. Ten threats to global health in 2019. WHO 2019. https://www.who.int/emergencies/ten-threats-to-global-health-in-2019