Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group.
Download logo U.S. Deputy Secretary of Agriculture Stephen Censky will lead a trade mission to West Africa, October 28-31, to help United States exporters unlock new opportunities in a region where strong economic growth is driving demand for imported food and farm products. The mission will be based in Accra, Ghana, and will also include buyer delegations from Côte d’Ivoire, The Gambia, Nigeria, and Senegal.  “At USDA we are working to sell the bounty of American agriculture. West Africa is a bright spot with a growing middle class that are hungry for our delicious and wholesome agriculture products,” said Deputy Secretary Censky. “Through this trade mission and other efforts, USDA is proud to support President Trump’s Prosper Africa initiative, which is seeking to boost two-way trade and investment between the United States and Africa. Prosper Africa brings together the full range of U.S. government resources to connect U.S. and African businesses with new buyers, suppliers, and investment opportunities – a win for the United States and for countries across the African continent.”  Deputy Secretary Censky will be joined by Nebraska Department of Agriculture Director Steve Wellman, North Dakota Agriculture Commissioner Doug Goehring, officials from the Georgia Department of Agriculture, and representatives from the following companies and organizations: AFRO Plus Logistics, Bear, Delaware 	American Premier Meat, Connersville, Indiana 	American Soybean Association/World Initiative for Soy in Human Health, St. Louis, Missouri 	Anna Carter’s The Seed Lady, Los Angeles, California 	Archer Daniels Midland Company, Chicago, Illinois 	Berkeley Capital Group, Inc, New York, New York 	Crown Products, Inc, Metairie, Louisiana 	CTB, Inc., Milford, Indiana 	DAUUS Company, Bloomington, Minnesota 	East West International Group, Inc, Moreland, Ohio 	Fobrose Group, Houston, Texas 	Geotan Enterprises, LLC, Humble, Texas 	Ghantex Holdings Limited, Houston, Texas 	Global Export Marketing Co. Ltd., New York, New York 	Green Plains Inc., Omaha, Nebraska 	Growth Energy, Washington, D.C. 	Hills Harvest, College Park, Maryland 	International Feed Corporation, Excelsior, Minnesota 	I.P.P International, Cedar Rapids, Iowa 	JBR International Trade Group, Inc., DuPont, Washington 	Livestock Exporters Association of the USA, Chicago, Illinois 	Marquis Energy, Hennepin, Illinois 	Mariani Packing Company, Vacaville, California 	National Swine Registry, West Lafayette, Indiana 	Neil Jones Food Company, Vancouver, Washington 	North Star Food Trading LLC, Minneapolis, Minnesota 	Now International, Bloomingdale, Illinois 	Oakmont & Associates, Addison, Texas 	Perdue Foods, Salisbury, Maryland 	Steel City Global Trading, LLC, Enterprise, Alabama 	St. Louis African Chamber of Commerce, St. Louis, Missouri 	Tam Global Consultants, Portland, Oregon 	Tomex Foods, Inc. Lombard, Illinois 	Triad Fisheries Ltd, Portland, Oregon 	U.S. Livestock Genetics Export, Inc., Mount Horeb, Wisconsin 	U.S. Grains Council, Washington, D.C. 	U.S. Soybean Export Council, Chesterfield, Missouri 	U.S. Wheat Associates, Arlington, Virginia 	United Source One, Belcamp, Maryland 	Virginia Natural Beef Inc., Lexington, Virginia 	Wakava Food and Beverage, LLC, St. Louis, Missouri 	Wygold LLC, Woodland, California Deputy Secretary of Agriculture Stephen Censky Mr. Censky is the Deputy Secretary for the U.S. Department of Agriculture. He was sworn-in on October 11, 2017 after being unanimously confirmed by the Senate. Mr. Censky previously served for the past 21 years as CEO of the American Soybean Association, a national, not-for-profit trade association that represents United States soybean farmers on policy and trade. Mr. Censky began his career working as a legislative assistant for Senator Jim Abdnor (R-SD). Later he served in both the Reagan and George H. W. Bush Administrations at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, eventually serving as Administrator of the Foreign Agricultural Service where he was involved in running our nation’s export programs. Mr. Censky received his B.S. in Agriculture from South Dakota State University and his Postgraduate Diploma in Agriculture Science from the University of Melbourne, Australia. He grew up on a soybean, corn, and diversified livestock farm near Jackson, Minnesota. He and his wife Carmen have two daughters in college. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Embassy of the United States – Accra – Ghana.