By Aya Chebbi – Human Rights Activist and African Union Youth Envoy Commemorating World Poverty Eradication day presents an opportune
moment to reflect on the status of Africa’s journey of development as a means
for the continent to step out of poverty, and take its place as a global
superpower. It must be celebrated the fact that Africa has achieved positive
strides in reducing poverty and accomplishing the aspirations set out in Agenda
2063. Since 1990, poverty on the
continent has declined. According to the latest World Bank estimates, the share
of Africans who are poor fell from 56% in 1990 to 43%
in 2012. However, during the same period, Africa’s population has continued to expand
rapidly.  As a result, the number of the
continent’s population living in extreme poverty still increased by   up to about 50 million people.  These numbers are staggering. Further, it is projected
that the world’s extreme poor will be
increasingly concentrated in Africa if present conditions remain the same. While 60% of the working age population in Africa are employed, many of the jobs are lacking in dignity, decent pay, security and social protection.  Young people are more affected by this as they constitute the majority  of the population, and also have fewer opportunities for jobs with dignity. . Adding to that, the continent is worst affected by food insecurity as
hunger, and malnutrition rises persistently across many  sub-regions. This high rate of youth unemployment can make countries less stable and
prone to conflict. Put together, rising hunger and joblessness could mean that
Africa is nurturing a generation of economically deprived, hungry and angry
young people, who are vulnerable to become agents of conflicts and
violence, Therefore, Africa’s future and stability depends strongly on the
creation of a decent productive employment for its burgeoning youthful
population. Failure to generate sufficient jobs with dignity for young people
will increase migration and global security challenges. [1] Africa has the
youngest population with a median age of 18 compared to 42 in Europe, 31 in South America,
35 in North America and 31 in Asia.  It
is predicted that by 2050, African youth will account for a quarter of the
world’s population. Despite what many have referred to as a ‘demographic
dividend’, youth in Africa continue to be marginalized and evidence suggests
that this demographic dividend is not being harnessed. Although the numbers
may look bleak, hope lies in the African youth! Africa’s journey to 2063 as a
prosperous continent can be achieved by harnessing the talent found in this
large pool of young innovative, motivated and change-makers. It is important to
empower them with the platform and tools they need to create the type of
development and change our continent deserves The Africa Youth
Charter, adopted in 2006 by African Union member States, is the political and
legal framework which is intended to enshrine the rights, duties and freedoms
of African youth. Specifically, the Charter seeks to ensure the constructive
involvement of youth in the development agenda of Africa and their effective
participation in the debates and decision-making processes in the development
of the continent. The Charter sets a framework to enable policy makers to
mainstream youth issues in all development policies and programmes.  It also provides a legal basis for ensuring
youth presence and participation in government structures and fora at national,
regional and continental levels. However, despite
being signed by 43 member states of the African Union and ratified and
deposited by 39, there has not been a genuine commitment to it and little
uptake.  In 2019, young Africans remain
conspicuously absent at decision-making tables. There is a lack of
representation of young people and especially young women, as the continent and
its key institutions continue to be governed by leaders who do not represent
the largely young populations they serve. This means current leaders are not
drawing on the large talent pool to help them co-create solutions to Africa’s
most pressing challenges, especially unemployment. From a sustainability
perspective, this can be considered dangerous. 
Young Africans do not understand the systems and institutions that
define their future.  How then will they inherit structures and processes
that they do not understand? This World Poverty
Day, is important for African Union member states and policymakers to recommit
to bringing in more young people into the various structures and institutions
that determine the future of the continent. 
Young people don’t just want to be seen. They want to be heard.
 They dont’ just to be led, they want to lead and contribute to their
countries. How can they
contribute if the spaces and platforms are closed and excluding them? Opening
these spaces and earnestly implementing the African Youth Charter that many
African Union member States signed, would be a good start! Furthermore, it
must be noted that the future of work in
Africa relies heavily on agriculture and food system development especially because the majority of youth- about
63%  live and work in rural areas, mostly
engaged in agricultural related activities. Therefore, agriculture  remains an important source of employment and
income in  Africa, for the next
decades.  Currently, the level of youth
engagement in this sector is, at best, just for survival and these young
workers  are not at the table to
co-create the necessary solutions that would make this sector more attractive
and viable for youth. Moving forward, we
need to ensure that African youth are, in fact, the demographic dividend,.   The inaction of our leaders could be a path
to famine and a decline in our prospects for development as a continent.   In the hands of this generation of
youth  lies  our hope to see the realization of the Africa
we want . For Africa to rid itself from the shackles of poverty, our leaders
must  include youth at the table, not
just as spectators, but as co-innovators and co-leaders. Let’s shake things up! [1] Failure to generate sufficient
formal-sector jobs for young people will increase migration and global security
challenges. , pg 18