Content supplied by Africa Investment Forum By Alain Ebobissé, CEO, Africa50 “The Africa Investment Forum, with its high-level, well-focused audience, ranks among the best.  Its strength is that it is very transaction-oriented. The Forum not only brings together investors and stakeholders to initiate deals, but can help close transactions that would otherwise take months or years,” says Ebobissé. Ebobissé is the Chief Executive Officer of Africa50,
an infrastructure investment platform helping to facilitate project
development, mobilizing public and private sector finance, and investing in
infrastructure projects on the continent. Africa50’s investor base is currently
composed of the African Development Bank, 28 African countries, and two African
central banks. In this interview, Ebobisse shares insights on the Africa Investment Forum and why it ranks
among the best. What
are your most important memories and experiences of the inaugural Africa
Investment Forum? Our
expectations for the Forum were high, and they were exceeded. We had in total
45 meetings, including three boardroom sessions with project developers, sponsors
investment firms and government entities who were eager to discuss and close
deals. This
allowed us to build up our project pipeline. Two projects discussed during the
Forum are moving forward. The
Africa Investment Forum was also an excellent networking opportunity with high-level
government officials, including heads of states. Discussing projects with such decision
makers is critical as it can accelerate the approval and development
process. What
are some of the key milestones from your organization (in terms of deals
closure, tracking, etc.) reached at the forum? At the 2018 Africa
Investment Forum in Johannesburg, we reached preliminary agreements on two
major projects, which we signed and publicly announced. One is the Kigali
Innovation City and the other, the road-rail bridge linking Brazzaville and
Kinshasa. Both create new hubs in the center of Africa – the first for
innovation, the second for transportation. The two projects are valued at $850 million. Almost
70% of the projects that were initiated at last year’s Africa Investment Forum concern
infrastructure, so the Africa Investment Forum was a great venue for Africa50. It
was also the right space for widening our institution’s thought leadership and
expertise on infrastructure. In addition to the plenary sessions I participated
in, Africa50 Director for Project Development, Koffi Klousseh, spoke on a panel
on creating bankable projects and at a side event on energy infrastructure. How
does the Africa Investment Forum compare with similar investment forums – what
is the Forum’s comparative advantage? As
an organization, we attend and speak at several events focused on investment in
Africa every year. The Africa Investment Forum, with its high-level,
well-focused audience, ranks among the best. Its
strength is that it is very transaction oriented. The Africa Investment Forum not
only brings together investors and stakeholders to initiate deals, but can help
close transactions that would otherwise take months or years. In infrastructure,
this makes a significant difference since the financial and opportunity costs
of project delays are high. The
Forum’s work streams on project preparation, and bankability, coupled with
promoting investment and improving the policy environment, are very much on
target. These are also our priorities at Africa50. The
mix of participants is also well balanced and includes all the main stakeholders,
from sponsors and investors, to enablers and service providers. The
Forum is led by the stakeholders in the deal-making process, sponsors,
governments, and DFIs/financiers. They prepare projects and negotiate all year
round. So the Africa Investment Forum is not a one-off event, but an
accelerator of a long-term process. This sets it apart from other events. Why
is it important for DFIs, IFIs, MDBs, and commercial banks to collaborate in
the manner that they did at the Africa Investment Forum? Large
investments in Africa, in our case infrastructure, need many sources of finance
and expertise, so the collaboration between public and private financial institutions
is crucial to getting deals off the ground. Each entity brings specialized
expertise and different funding and risk guarantee instruments. Once
again, the Africa Investment Forum is actually a marketplace for deals, not a
conference. This requires more involvement on the part of participants, which
leads to better collaboration between commercial banks and DFIs to provide a broader
array of financial products to fund infrastructure. How
are you organizing and mobilizing for the next Africa Investment Forum? We
will send appropriate high-level staff to participate in four ways: by promoting
our thought leadership on infrastructure development during panel discussions;
by promoting our newly launched Innovation Challenge, which focuses on
increasing access to last-mile internet connectivity in under-served areas in Africa;
we will also be engaging in project-specific transactions and negotiations,
during boardroom sessions and will engage with high-level government officials,
including Heads of State or Government on specific projects or to encourage
them to become Africa50 shareholders.