By Gary van Staden, Head of Research, NKC African Economics. Mozambique goes to the polls next Tuesday, October 15, against a backdrop of new investment plans that would significantly improve the country’s economic growth outlook, but also some concern over the possibility of conflict in what is guaranteed to be a disputed outcome. Presidential,
regional, and national elections are likely to see incumbent President Filipe
Nyusi returned to office, while his ruling Mozambique Liberation Front
(Frelimo) is expected to gain a majority in the national assembly. Some
regional governors, however, may well fall to the opposition Mozambique
National Resistance (Renamo). The
presidential race requires an absolute majority, or a second round of voting
will be needed. As things stand, Mr Nyusi may narrowly avoid a run-off given
that Frelimo managed close to 52% of the vote in last year’s local authority
elections, although comparisons between presidential preferences and local
polls would be a stretch. The
only guaranteed outcome is that Renamo will dispute the results as they have
done for every election since 1994 – usually without any substantive evidence
of misconduct. The problem is that the continuous allegations of rigging and
fraud increase the political temperature, and violence is always a potential
consequence. The
other issue is that Renamo has a social media network that works to generate
expectations of misconduct even before the elections are held. Make
no mistake, elections in Mozambique are far from perfect. While flawed and
often disorganised, the outcome of elections tends to reflect the will of the
people and usually qualifies for the ‘substantially free and fair’ verdict from
observers. That does not always quell the anger of the losers. A
more significant problem for Renamo is the potential for infighting to cost it
at the polls. The internal squabbles over leadership and other issues preceded
the death of long-time leader Afonso Dhlakama but have escalated dramatically
since his demise, even resulting in a breakaway by some Renamo fighters who
rejected the leadership of Ossufo Momade and the recently signed peace deal
with the Frelimo government. While
the renegade bandits are not regarded as a serious threat, they remain capable
of disruption. A more serious threat comes from a larger body of discontent in
Renamo over the same leadership and policy issues as well as electoral
disagreements. All this plays into Frelimo’s hands. Recent
announcements by Exxon Mobil highlighting plans to invest more than $500m in
the initial construction phase of its liquefied natural gas (LNG) project has
provided a welcome boost for Mr Nyusi and Frelimo, with the project expected to
pump much-needed cash into the economy. Media
reports this week stated that the US oil company’s $30bn Rovuma LNG project,
jointly operated with Italy’s Eni, has a capacity of more than 15 million
tonnes a year (mtpa). The Exxon project, along with Total’s $20bn 13 mtpa
facility and Eni’s $8bn 3.4 mtpa floating plant, means Mozambique will have the
ability to export 31 mtpa of natural gas – about 10% of today’s global market,
Reuters reports. The
massive investments into northern Mozambique will fundamentally alter the
socio-economic and political environment of the often-troubled northern
provinces, but at the same time provide an incentive to grapple for a slice of
the pie. Violence by Islamic extremists in the northern province of Cabo
Delgado has resulted in some 200 deaths over the past two years, prompting
Maputo to enlist the assistance of Russian para-military to help quell the
problem. These
issues – along with the renegade Renamo bandits, the alarming killing of an
electoral official (allegedly by members of a police unit in the
Frelimo-stronghold Gaza province), and the spread of allegations of voter
numbers being inflated – are creating tensions and concern over conflict before
and after the polls. We expect at least some measure of conflict over the next
few days and weeks, mainly because the environment is once again being primed
for such conflict from several quarters – including media. Once
again, Mozambique goes to the polls next week amid the same concerns,
allegations, expectations, and predictions that have accompanied the polls for
the past two decades. We expect nothing different this time. Frelimo and Mr
Nyusi are expected to retain power, with a worst-case scenario for the
president of a run-off. If the run-off is avoided, then whatever sporadic and
limited conflict that may get sparked should die down. Frelimo
has not always covered itself in glory, but the massive investment and
opportunity for growth and development now afforded in the north must not be
squandered, and this election could be a new beginning.